Study 2

	In Study 2, we conducted a framed field experiment (Harrison & List, 2004) to extend our key findings to an in-person, real choice environment in which participants were not aware they were under study. Here we tested whether the key effect of descriptive feedback on selection decisions held when evaluators were making incentive-compatible choices about which prominent figures they would like to feature in a public display in their organization. 
Methods
Participants. This study was pre-registered on AsPredicted (https://aspredicted.org/WYY_3PL). We recruited 302 participants to complete a 1-minute survey in exchange for a candy bar (52.52% men; 44.96% women; Mage = 25.11, 41.37% White, 10.79% Black, 4.68% Hispanic, 42.81% Asian) in a high-traffic pedestrian area at a midsize university in the Northeastern United States between March 27 and May 15, 2024. The IRB approved a waiver of informed consent, so participants were not told that they were participating in a research study.
Procedure. Student recruiters in school-branded clothing (truthfully) told passersby they were conducting a quick vote on which biographies should be displayed at the business school to encourage non-fiction reading; seven books with obscured covers on a table served as a visual prop (see Figure S1 in the Appendix). Participants who agreed were handed an iPad showing 25 well-known biographies, each with a cover thumbnail and a brief description (protagonist’s name, role, publication year, page count); five (20%) featured women protagonists.
Participants were instructed to vote for an initial portfolio of six biographies they would recommend for the on-campus display. After making their initial selections, participants were randomly assigned to either (1) the no gender feedback condition or (2) the gender feedback condition. In the no gender feedback condition, participants were presented with three pieces of descriptive feedback about their initial six book selections, specifically the percentage of biographies they had selected that (1) were over 500 pages, (2) were written in the past 25 years, and (3) featured an entertainer. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of biographies they had selected featuring a woman protagonist alongside two additional pieces of descriptive feedback that were randomly drawn from the list of three descriptive facts provided in the no gender feedback condition. After receiving descriptive feedback about the composition of their initial selected portfolio of six biographies, participants were asked to vote for a seventh and final biography from the original set–where their prior selections were highlighted–to include in the display.
------------------------------------
Insert Table 3 about here
------------------------------------
Results 
Initial selections featured women protagonists 25.2% of the time, with a slight imbalance across conditions (23.0% control vs. 27.3% treatment, p = .050). Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regression with robust standard errors to predict whether the seventh and final biography participants selected featured a woman. Participants were significantly more likely to choose a biography featuring a woman as their seventh and final selection in the gender feedback condition (35.10% did so) than in the no gender feedback condition (21.85% chose a woman; B = 0.132, 95% CI = [0.031, 0.234], t(302) = 2.56, p = .011, see Figure 3; Table 3, Model 1).
As was the case in Study 1, we found no significant effects of the impact of random assignment to receive descriptive feedback about another given biography attribute in a participant’s initial portfolio of choices on subsequent selections of biographies with that same attribute (all p’s ≥ .5; see Table 3 Models 2-4). 
Discussion
