Study 1

In Study 1, participants imagined assuming the role of National Public Radio (NPR) producers selecting experts to interview for stories about the future of work in America. We tested the effect of providing participants with descriptive feedback about the gender composition of their previously selected expert sources on their subsequent hypothetical selections of experts for future NPR stories. This study was designed to imitate the real feedback system currently used at NPR to provide producers with summary statistics about their past sources (Fu, 2021).
Methods
Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/vazsm/), we recruited 1,000 participants through Prolific to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (55.4% women; 43.7% men; 0.9% non-binary; Mage = 43.80; 72.3% White, 13.2% Black, 6.5% Hispanic, 7.2% Asian).
Procedure. Participants were told to imagine they worked as producers at NPR and were responsible for identifying and booking expert sources to interview for various news segments and stories. Participants were informed that for the past three months, they had been working on a series of stories about the future of work in America and had selected and interviewed a portfolio of ten experts for these stories.
Participants were then randomly assigned to one of two conditions: (1) the no gender feedback condition or (2) the gender feedback condition. In the no gender feedback condition, participants received descriptive feedback summarizing the percentage of experts they had selected over the past three months who (1) were under 50 years old, (2) were based on the West Coast (of the United States), and (3) worked at a university. Notably, NPR has actually tracked each of these attributes of expert sources, which were deemed a priority, and displayed them to producers. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of past selectees who were women, presented alongside two of the three statistics presented in the no gender feedback condition drawn at random. 
After receiving descriptive feedback about the composition of their past expert selections, participants were asked to select three experts from a list of 25 candidates for an upcoming NPR segment on how artificial intelligence is reshaping employment and were provided with each candidate's name, area of expertise, and institutional affiliation. See Materials Section: Study 1 in the Appendix for complete study materials.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Insert Table 2 about here 
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Results
Following our pre-registration, we ran an ordinary least squares regression (OLS) predicting the proportion of women selected, with assignment to the gender feedback condition as our primary predictor and an indicator for assignment to stimulus Set 1.
As shown in Figure 3A and Model 1 of Table 2, participants selected a significantly higher proportion of women experts in the gender feedback condition (46.2% women experts selected) than in the no gender feedback condition (33.7% women experts selected; B = 0.125, 95% CI = [0.093, 0.157], t(997) = 7.58, p < .001). The effect was robust to controlling for participant demographics (Appendix Table S1).	To formally test whether offering feedback about the percentage of past experts who were women had a larger effect on the subsequent selection of women experts than offering feedback about other attributes had on the subsequent selection of experts with those attributes, we constructed three systems of simultaneous equations (Zellner, 1962). For each system, we included a pair of equations: one modeling the effect of random assignment to receive gender feedback and one modeling the effect of random assignment to receive feedback on another expert attribute (i.e., past selectees who were under 50 years old, based on the West Coast, or worked at a university, see Table 2, Models 5-8). We then used Wald tests to compare the treatment effects estimated in the paired equations, which confirmed that the effect of assignment to the gender feedback condition on the proportion of women experts selected was significantly larger than the effects of assignment to receive descriptive feedback about the percentage of past experts who were (1) under 50 years old (F(1, 3988) = 6.63, p = .010), (2) based on the West Coast (F(1, 3988) = 8.35, p = .004), or (3) worked at a university (F(1, 3988) = 12.84, p < .001) on subsequent selections of experts with those respective attributes. This pattern of findings held across stimuli sets (see footnote 2). 
