Discussion
Across two experiments involving incentivized decisions, we found that providing descriptive feedback about the race (Study 3A) or gender (Study 3B) of protagonists featured in past films selected for a marketing campaign significantly increased the likelihood that participants subsequently selected films featuring women or racial minorities, respectively. One possible alternative explanation for our findings is that providing participants with feedback about the race or gender of past selections signaled that we value racial or gender diversity. For example, when participants first selected films, they might have chosen based on personal preferences. But when they received descriptive feedback summarizing the attributes of their selected biopics, evaluators may have inferred that protagonist race (in Study 3A) or gender (in Study 3B) were of particular significance to the experimenter and attended to these attributes more in subsequent decisions as a result of a “demand effect” (Orne, 1962; Zizzo, 2010). If this alternative explanation were driving our effects, however, we would also expect participants to respond to the “demand effect” inherent in receiving feedback about other attributes of their selected films (e.g., feedback about a film’s budget or year of release), but we found no such patterns. 
However, to further rule out a “demand effect” explanation for our findings, we conducted two supplemental experiments (Studies S2A and S2B, detailed in pages 7-11 in the Appendix). In both studies, we employed a 2x2 design, crossing our original gender feedback manipulation with the addition of a values-based injunctive message (i.e., “The organization planning this event cares deeply about presenting a diversity of speakers in terms of [their experience in CEO roles, their experience as company founders, their background in the technology industry] and their gender.”) to the participant emphasizing the importance of making diverse selections. This message was designed to parallel real-world organizational communications, which typically signal that diversity is valued rather than issue direct commands about whom to select. In Study S2A, participants made hypothetical selections of corporate speakers to join a high-profile panel, while in Study S2B, participants made incentivized selections of podcasts hosted by prominent men and women to include in a Facebook advertisement. Across both studies, we replicated our finding from Study 3B: descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees increased the likelihood that participants subsequently selected a woman. However, explicitly highlighting the importance of making diverse selections (via an explicit injunctive norm message) did not significantly increase the selection of women candidates (in S2A: the message produced a regression-estimated 3% increase in the selection of women panelists, B = 0.030, p = .471; in S2B: the message produced a regression-estimated 5% increase in the selection of podcasts with women hosts, B = 0.053, p = .176). Moreover, in neither study did the effect of the explicit injunctive norm message highlighting the importance of diverse selections significantly alter the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees (Study S2A interaction: B = -0.005, p = .941; Study S2B interaction: B = 0.019, p = .748; see Appendix Tables S17-S22 for full results). Together, these findings suggest our results in Study 3 are not the product of an experimenter demand effect. 
