================================================================================
FULL CONTEXT: Study 4 section, Study 5 section, Response letter paragraphs
================================================================================

MANUSCRIPT — STUDY 4 SECTION (lines 96-133):
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
L96: Study 4
L97: 
L98: In Study 4, we tested the mechanism we theorize underlies the relationship between descriptive feedback and subsequent selection decisions: motivation to respond without prejudice. 
L99: We also attempted to rule out the possibility that the “comparison” attributes summarized in descriptive feedback (alongside feedback about the race or gender of past selectees) in our prior studies may have been perceived as less important to participants than the race and gender of candidates. In Study 4B, we selected comparison attributes after pre-testing them for importance, and we ensured that all were rated at least as important as gender or race. See Appendix Study S4 for a complete description of our pre-testing procedure and results.
L100: We examined the effect of feedback about the race of past selectees in Study 4A and feedback about the gender of past selectees in Study 4B. 
L101: Study 4A
L102: 
L103: Methods
L104: Participants. As pre-registered (https://aspredicted.org/XGG_21R), we recruited 1,000 participants on Amazon’s Cloudresearch to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (47.6% men, 51.5% women; Mage = 42.53; 75.75% White, 9.21% Black, 4.75% Hispanic, 8.83% Asian). 
L105: Procedure. Participants imagined being  tasked with creating a reading list for their local library. They were presented with a 25 (real) authors, each shown with a small photograph and a brief description listing the author’s name (e.g., James Baldwin, Isabel Allende), most notable work (e.g., Go Tell It on the Mountain, The House of the Spirits), and a count of their total published works (e.g., “authored 6 books and several short stories and poems”; “authored 6 books”). Eight of the 25 authors (32%) were racial minorities.
L106: Participants selected an initial portfolio of six authors and were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: (1) the no race feedback condition or (2) the race feedback condition. In the no race feedback condition, participants received summary statistics about the percentage of selected authors who (1) were born in the 1800s, (2) wrote more than 10 books, and/or (3) wrote poetry. In the race feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of authors they had selected who were racial minorities, alongside one or two randomly drawn pieces of feedback from the list above.
L107: After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final author to recommend for their local library’s summer fiction reading list from the original author candidate set, where their prior selections were highlighted. Finally, participants were asked questions to assess their internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice. See Materials Section: Study 4A for full study materials. 
L108: Internal motivation to respond without prejudice. To assess internal motives (e.g., image concerns) in the final author selection, we adapted four items from Plant and Devine’s (1998) internal motivation to respond without prejudice scale (e.g., “Given my personal values and beliefs, an important factor in my selection of the seventh author to add to my list was my desire to promote the success of racial minorities.”; Cronbach’s α = 0.93). Items used a  1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale and, as pre-registered, were separately z-scored and then averaged.
L109: External motivation to respond without prejudice. To assess external motives (e.g., reputational concerns) in the final author selection,  we adapted three items from Plant and Devine’s external motivation to respond without prejudice scale (e.g., “When making my decision about who to select as my seventh author, I considered the social pressures I face to appear to promote racial minorities where they are typically underrepresented.”; Cronbach’s α = 0.90). Items used a 1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale, and as pre-registered, were separately z-scored and then averaged. 
L110: Results
L111: Initial selections featured racial minority authors 21.8% of the time, with balance across conditions (p = .114; see Appendix Table S7). Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regression with robust standard errors predicting whether the seventh and final author a participant selected was a racial minority, with assignment to the race feedback condition as the primary predictor. We again replicated the findings from our previous studies (see Table S7 for complete results): Participants were significantly more likely to choose a racial minority author in the race feedback condition (41.60% chose a racial minority author) than in the no race feedback condition (28.20% chose a racial minority author; B = 0.134, 95% CI = [0.075, 0.193], t(998) = 4.48, p < .001; see Table S7, Model 1). In addition, as predicted, we again found that the effect of providing feedback about the race of initial selectees is significantly larger than the effects of providing descriptive feedback about other attributes of initial selectees (poets: F(1, 3984) = 6.19, p = .013; wrote > 10 books: F(1, 3984) = 5.50, p = .019; born in 1800s: F(1, 3984) = 5.26, p = .022; see Table S7, Models 5-8).
L112: Mediation. Following our pre-registration, we tested each proposed mediator independently using a 10,000-sample bootstrapped mediation model and a Sobel test. The 95% bias-corrected CI for the size of the indirect effect of internal motivation to respond without prejudice excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.06, 95% CI = [0.034, 0.09], suggesting that internal motivation to respond without prejudice helped account for the effect of assignment to the race feedback condition on selecting a racial minority as the final author. Using Imai et al.’s (2010) average causal mediation effect approach, 44.7% of the effect occurred through mediation by the participant’s internal motivation to respond without prejudice. In addition, the 95% bias-corrected CI for the size of the indirect effect of external motivation to respond without prejudice excludes zero (indirect effect = 0.019, 95% CI = [0.005, 0.03]), suggesting that participants’ external motivation to respond without prejudice also helped account for the effect of assignment to the race feedback condition (vs. no race feedback) on selecting a racial minority final author. The average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 14.1% of the effect occurred through external motivation to respond without prejudice. 
L113: We next tested for both mediators in a multiple mediation model (as preregistered), which addressed address potential multicollinearity between these correlated measures (r = 0.72, p < 0.001). Once accounting for the correlation between constructs, internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.08, 95% CI = [0.042, 0.11]), significantly mediated the effect  whereas external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.014, 95% CI = [-0.03, 0.00]) did not.  
L114: Study 4B
L115: In this study, we replicate our key findings from Study 4A, but this time we provide feedback about the gender (rather than race) of the initial selectees. Prior to this study, we conducted a pretest (N = 550) rating 21 candidate author attributes on importance for selecting authors (see Appendix Section S4 for full details); allowing us to select three comparison attributes that did not differ significantly from gender on rated importance.
L116: Given that liberals and conservatives differ not only in their attitudes toward diversity but also in their understanding of what diversity means (Howard, Cervone, & Motyl, 2022), and that recent research suggests diversity initiatives may produce divergent reactions across the political spectrum (Hachem & Dover, 2024), we also examine whether participants’ political ideology moderates the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees.
L117: Methods
L118: 	Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/de3bu/), we recruited 1,000 participants through Prolific Academic to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (48.0% men, 50.7% women, 1.1% non-binary; Mage = 43.0; 75.9% White, 10.8% Black, 4.8% Hispanic, 8.0% Asian).
L119: Procedure. As in Study 4A, a list of 25 (real) authors was presented to each participant to consider for inclusion in a reading list for their local library. Each author was displayed with a photograph, the author’s name (e.g., Kurt Vonnegut), most notable work (e.g., Slaughterhouse-Five), an estimate of their most notable work’s all-time sales and time in print (e.g., 800K copies sold, in print 56 years), their number of works authored (e.g., 14 books, 3 essays), and their genre(s) (e.g., Science Fiction, Satire). Six of the authors on this list (24%) were women.
L120: Following a similar procedure to the one described in Study 4A, participants were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: participants in the no gender feedback condition received summary statistics about the percentage of authors they had selected who (1) wrote works spanning multiple genres, (2) had at least one book with 30 million or more copies sold, and/or (3) had works that remained in continuous print for over 50 years. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of authors they had selected who were women, alongside two randomly drawn pieces of feedback from the list of items in the no gender feedback condition. After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final author to recommend for their local library’s winter fiction reading list from the original candidate set, where their prior selections were highlighted. 
L121: After making all decisions, participants were asked questions to assess their internal (Cronbach’s α = 0.93) and external (Cronbach’s α = 0.89) motivation to respond without prejudice, which were identical to the questions in Study 4A except for word changes made to focus on avoiding gender prejudice rather than racial prejudice. See Materials Section: Study 4B for full study materials. 
L122: Political ideology. To measure participants’ political orientation, we used the 7-point political ideology scale from the American National Election Studies (ANES, 2022). Participants responded to the prompt “When it comes to politics, do you usually think of yourself as...?” on a scale ranging from 1 (Extremely liberal) to 7 (Extremely conservative), with 4 representing Moderate; middle of the road. This measure was centered at 4 (moderate) for analyses examining moderation effects.
L123: Political party affiliation. To assess participants’ political party identification, we adapted the party identification item from the American National Election Studies (ANES, 2022). Participants were asked “Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, a Democrat, or an Independent?” and selected one of three options: Democrat, Republican, or Independent. For regression analyses, party affiliation was dummy coded with Republican as the reference category.
L124: Results 
L125: Initial selections featured women authors 25.3% of the time, with balance across conditions (p = .679; see Appendix Table S9).
L126: Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regressions with robust standard errors predicting whether the seventh and final author a participant selected was a woman, with assignment to the gender feedback condition as the primary predictor First, we replicated the primary findings from our previous studies (see Table S9 for complete regression results): participants were significantly more likely to choose a woman author as their final selectee in the gender feedback condition (41.48% chose a woman author) than in the no gender feedback condition (29.54% chose a woman author; B = 0.119, 95% CI = [0.060, 0.178], t(998) = 3.97, p < .001; Table S9, Model 1).
L127: In addition, as theorized, we found that the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of initial selectees is significantly larger than the effect of providing descriptive feedback about whether participants’ initial selectees wrote works spanning multiple genres (F(1, 1992) = 37.92, p < .001), wrote at least one book with 30 million or more copies sold (F(1, 1992) = 11.48, p < .001), or wrote any works that remained in continuous print for over 50 years (F(1, 1992) = 9.01, p = .003; see Table S9, Models 5-8).
L128: Mediation. Following our pre-registration, we tested each proposed mediator independently using a 10,000-sample bootstrapped mediation model and a Sobel test (Imai et al., 2010). The 95% bias-corrected CI for the indirect effect of internal motivation to respond without prejudice excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.064, 95% CI = [0.037, 0.094]), suggesting that internal motivation partially accounted for the effect of assignment to the gender feedback condition on the likelihood of selecting a woman as the final author; the average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 53.9% of the effect occurred through internal motivation. Next, the 95% bias-corrected CI for the indirect effect of external motivation excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.030, 95% CI = [0.014, 0.048]), suggesting that external motivation likewise accounted for the effect; the average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 24.8% of the effect occurred through external motivation. 
L129: We next tested both mediators in a multiple mediation model (these items were highly correlated: r = 0.78, p < .001). The results confirmed that internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.091, 95% CI = [0.052, 0.131]) significantly mediated the effect. When both mediators were included simultaneously, external motivation to respond without prejudice showed a significant negative indirect effect (indirect effect = -0.028, 95% CI = [-0.046, -0.012]).
L130: To test whether political ideology or party affiliation moderated our effects, we added pre-registered interaction terms to our primary model. We found no significant interaction between assignment to the gender feedback condition and political ideology (B = -0.013, 95% CI = [-0.044, 0.018], t(996) = -0.80, p = .424), nor did we find significant interactions between assignment to the gender feedback condition and party affiliation (Democrat interaction: B = 0.019, 95% CI = [-0.125, 0.164], t(994) = 0.26, p = .792; Independent interaction: B = 0.067, 95% CI = [-0.085, 0.220], t(994) = 0.87, p = .387), 
L131: Discussion
L132: In Study 4, we again replicated the effect of descriptive feedback about the race and gender of past selectees increasing the subsequent selection of racial minorities and women. In addition, we found evidence that both internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice mediated this effect for subsequent selections of racial minorities (Study 4A) and women (Study 4B), respectively. When combining the highly correlated measures of internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice in a multiple mediation model, our findings suggest that internal motivation is the dominant mediator in our studies. However, external motivation to respond without prejudice could likely play a more significant role in settings where choices are made publicly. 
L133: In addition, Study 4B established that the effect of gender feedback was not moderated by political ideology nor party affiliation. Although we are cautious about over-interpreting a null interaction, this pattern is suggestive that descriptive feedback operates across partisan lines, an interpretation that converges with field-experiment evidence that women and racial minorities benefited from explicitly naming their demographic identity when contacting Republican and Democratic city councilors alike, an effect mediated by motivation to respond without prejudice (Kirgios et al., 2022). Building on this, we conducted a pooled analysis across Studies 2, 3A, 3B, and 4B (excluding Study 4A, where no participant began with zero of any comparison attribute), restricting our sample to participants whose initial selections contained zero candidates with a given attribute. Selecting zero of an attribute is a clear signal of underrepresentation that should provoke a response to feedback regardless of which attribute is summarized. Race and gender feedback raised the probability of selecting a racial minority or woman, respectively, by 22.50 percentage points (p < .001, N = 864), whereas feedback about other attributes did not significantly shift subsequent selections among participants whose initial portfolios contained zero of that attribute (effect = +7.25 percentage points, p = .19, N = 414). A Wald test confirms the difference between the two pooled coefficients is significant (p = .016). Full results appear in Appendix Section S[X]. Finally, it(Kirgios et al., 2022). Finally, it ruled out the possibility that our effects were driven by perceptions of which attributes were considered most important.

MANUSCRIPT — STUDY 5 SECTION (lines 134-160):
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
L134: Study 5
L135: In all of our studies so far, we examined situations where women or racial minorities were underrepresented in candidate pools, which means that mechanically they would also likely be underrepresented in many respondents’ initial set of selectees. As a result, the descriptive feedback we delivered typically highlighted that historically underrepresented groups had been picked at low rates (in fact, across all studies thus far, 83% of participants who received feedback about the gender or race of past selectees learned that the candidates they had initially selected were less than half women or racial minorities, respectively). In Study 5, we tested how descriptive feedback affects decision makers when it suggests that historically underrepresented groups have recently been picked at high rates. This would not, in theory, activate a motivation to respond without prejudice, since the initial feedback would indicate that historically underrepresented groups were being well-represented. Under such circumstances, we would no longer predict a positive effect of descriptive feedback about past decisions on the subsequent selection of candidates from a historically underrepresented population.
L136: Before testing this prediction experimentally, we examined whether the size of the effect we study differs based on the proportion of women and racial minorities initially selected by re-analyzing data from Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B. Specifically, we tested for an interaction between (1) the proportion of women or racial minorities a participant initially selected (before random assignment to condition) for inclusion in their portfolio and (2) random assignment to receive descriptive feedback about the fraction of women or racial minorities in their original portfolio of selectees. Based on our theorizing that feedback is unlikely to evoke a motivation to respond without prejudice when initial selections of women or racial minorities are high, we would predict a negative interaction between these predictors.
L137: ------------------------------------------------------------------
L138: Insert Table 4 about here 
L139: ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
L140: In Table 4, Models 1-5, we present five regression models re-analyzing data from Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B, in which we added two new predictors: (1) the proportion of racial minorities or women (depending on the study) in the initially selected candidate set and (2) an interaction between this predictor and our primary predictor: assignment to the race feedback or gender feedback condition (depending on the study). In Model 1, which analyzes data from Study 2 (gender), we found the predicted significant negative interaction between the proportion of women selected initially and the impact of assignment to the gender feedback condition on subsequent selections of women (B = -0.107, 95% CI = [-0.198, -0.015], t(298) = -2.30, p = .022). In Model 2, which analyzes data from Study 3A (race), we found only directional but insignificant evidence of the predicted negative interaction between the proportion of racial minorities selected initially and the impact of assignment to the race feedback condition on subsequent selections of racial minorities (B = -0.019, 95% CI = [-0.070, 0.032], t(996) = -0.73, p = .465). In Model 3, which analyzes data from Study 3B (gender), we found the predicted significant negative interaction between the proportion of women selected initially and the impact of assignment to the gender feedback condition on subsequent selections of women (B = -0.087, 95% CI = [-0.141, -0.034], t(996) = -3.20, p = .001). In Model 4, which analyzed data from Study 4A (race), we found marginally significant evidence of the predicted negative interaction (B = -0.044, 95% CI = [-0.088, 0.001], t(996) = -1.92, p = .055). And in Model 5, which analyzed data from Study 4B (gender), we found a significant negative interaction (B = -0.046, 95% CI = [-0.090, -0.002], t(996) = -2.06, p = .040), as predicted. 	To quantify the overall pattern of interactions across these five studies, we conducted a mini meta-analysis combining the interaction coefficients from Models 1-5 (Goh et al., 2016). Specifically, we pooled the five coefficients representing the interaction between assignment to the gender (Study 2, 3B, and 4B) or race (Study 3A and 4A) feedback condition and the proportion of women or racial minorities initially selected. Using a random-effects model, which weighs each study’s contribution by its standard error, we found a significant negative pooled interaction effect (B = -0.052, 95% CI = [-0.075, -0.028], z = -4.36, p < .001). This suggests that the effect of descriptive feedback on female and racial minority selections is reliably larger when participants have selected a lower initial proportion of women or racial minorities and receive feedback to this effect.
L141: However, because the proportion of women or racial minorities in participants’ initial selections was not randomly assigned (although selections were made before random assignment) and was somewhat restricted in range, we conducted an experiment where we used our standard experimental setup from Studies 2-4 but exogenously varied whether women made up the minority versus the majority of candidates available for selection. We then examined how exogenously manipulating whether people likely select very few versus very many female candidates related to the effect of descriptive feedback about the gender of their past selectees on the gender of their subsequent selectees.
L142: ------------------------------------------------------------------
L143: Insert Table 5 and Figure 4 about here 
L144: ------------------------------------------------------------------ 
L145: Methods
L146: 
L147: Participants. As pre-registered (https://aspredicted.org/xt2ct6), we recruited 1,200 participants through Prolific Academic to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (39.3% men, 59.0% women, 1.6% non-binary/other; Mage = 42.7; 70.0% White, 11.2% Black, 9.3% Hispanic, 8.4% Asian).
L148: Procedure. Following a similar procedure to Studies 2–4 participants imagined  planning a major international business conference and selecting a panel of six business leaders (from a list of 25 real leaders in randomized order) to provide insights into the global business landscape.We included each leader’s name (e.g., Jeff Bezos, Mary Barra), title (e.g., Founder, CEO), and company affiliation (e.g., Amazon, General Motors). After making their initial six-person panel, participants were randomly assigned to one of four conditions in a 2 (gender feedback vs. no gender feedback) X 2 (women underrepresented vs. women overrepresented) design. Participants randomly assigned to the women underrepresented conditions made selections from a panelist candidate list including 18 men and 6 women (25% women). In the women overrepresented conditions, participants made selections from a panelist candidate list including 18 women and 6 men (75% women). Participants in the no gender feedback conditions were randomly assigned to receive separate summary statistics about both the percentage of panelists they initially selected who were (1) in the tech industry and (2) company founders. In the gender feedback conditions, participants received feedback about the percentage of panelists they had selected who were women as well as the two summary statistics about past selectees that were provided to participants in the no gender feedback condition. We ensured balance in the fraction of men and women candidates who were in the tech industry and company founders across the women underrepresented and women overrepresented conditions. After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final panelist from the original set, and their prior selections were highlighted.
L149: Motivation to respond without prejudice. As in Study 4, we assessed internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice using seven items adapted from Plant and Devine’s (1998) scale (internal Cronbach’s α = 0.93; external Cronbach’s α = 0.91). Items used a 1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale and were z-scored and averaged.
L150: Fairness concerns. We measured fairness concerns about gender balance using three items adapted from research on distributive justice (Adams, 1965; Colquitt, 2001), specifically asking participants to rate the extent to which, when deciding on the seventh panelist, they prioritized achieving gender balance, avoided extreme over- or under-representation of men or women, and aimed to ensure that neither men nor women were left out (Cronbach’s α = 0.90). Items used the same 1-7 scale and were z-scored and averaged. See Materials Section: Study 5 in the Appendix for complete study materials.
L151: Results
L152: Participants in all conditions first selected six panelists. In the women overrepresented condition, 60.7% of these initial selectees were women (balance was successfully achieved on this attribute: 59.8% of initial selectees were women in the no gender feedback condition and 61.6% were women in the gender feedback condition, t(599.9) = -1.11, p = .268, 95% CI = [-0.049, 0.014]). In the women underrepresented condition, 21.0% of initial selectees were women (balance was successfully achieved on this attribute: 20.5% of initial selectees were women in the no gender feedback condition and 21.4% were women in the gender feedback condition, t(596) = -0.49, p = .624, 95% CI = [-0.045, 0.027]).
L153: For simplicity, we began by estimating separate OLS regressions (pre-registered as secondary analyses) predicting whether the seventh and final panelist selected was a woman with assignment to the gender feedback condition, among (1) the subset of participants assigned to the women underrepresented condition (see Table 5, Models 1-2) and (2) the subset of participants assigned to the women overrepresented condition (see Table 5, Models 3-4). Replicating our prior studies’ findings, Figure 4 and Table 5 (Model 1) show that when participants were randomly assigned to the women underrepresented condition (and selected panelists from a candidate pool in which women leaders were underrepresented), they were significantly more likely to choose a woman as their seventh and final panelist when assigned to the gender feedback condition (57.5% chose a woman panelist) than to the no gender feedback condition (33.3% chose a woman panelist; B_gender feedback = 0.241, 95% CI [0.164, 0.319], t(596) = 6.09, p < .001). However, as shown in Figure 4 and Table 5 (Model 3), when participants were randomly assigned to the women overrepresented condition, the effect of feedback reversed in direction: participants in the gender feedback condition selected a woman as their seventh and final panelist 66.1% of the time, whereas participants in the no gender feedback condition selected a woman as their final panelist 76.7% of the time (B_gender feedback = -0.106, 95% CI [-0.178, -0.034], t(600) = -2.90, p = .004). Both simple effects were robust to controlling for participant gender, race, and age (see Table 5, Models 2 and 4).
L154: Our primary pre-registered analysis pooled data across all conditions in a single OLS regression with robust standard errors to predict whether the seventh and final panelist a participant selected was a woman. Our primary predictors were: (1) an indicator for assignment to the gender feedback condition, (2) an indicator for assignment to the women overrepresented condition (with women underrepresented as the reference category), and (3) an interaction between the prior two indicators. As shown in Table 5, Model 5, the coefficient on the gender feedback indicator in this regression was positive and significant (B_gender feedback = 0.241, SE = 0.040, p < .001), indicating that when women were underrepresented in the candidate pool, receiving gender feedback increased the likelihood of selecting a woman as the final panelist by 24.1 percentage points. The coefficient on the women overrepresented indicator was also positive and significant (B_women overrepresented = 0.434, SE = 0.037, p < .001), indicating that in the absence of gender feedback, participants were 43.4 percentage points more likely to select a woman when women were overrepresented in the candidate pool compared to when women were underrepresented. Most notably, the interaction between the prior two indicators was negative and significant (B_gender feedback x women overrepresented = -0.348, SE = 0.054, p < .001), indicating that the effect of gender feedback was 34.8 percentage points lower when women were overrepresented than when they were underrepresented. In other words, gender feedback decreased the selection of women by 10.6 percentage points when women were overrepresented (vs. increasing selection of women by 24.1 percentage points when women were underrepresented). These results were robust to controlling for participant gender, race, and age (see Table 5, Model 6).
L155: Finally, we confirmed that not only did the effect of the gender feedback treatment flip across conditions, it was also unequal in magnitude across the women overrepresented and women underrepresented conditions (Wald Test: z = 2.50, p = .012). Specifically, the magnitude of the effect was 56% smaller in magnitude in the women overrepresented condition than in the women underrepresented condition.
L156: Exploratory Mediation Analyses. In analyses that were not pre-registered, we found that in the women underrepresented condition there were three significant mediators of the effect of descriptive feedback on the increased selection of women: internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.103, 95% CI = [0.070, 0.139], p < .001; replicating the results of Study 4), external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.046, 95% CI = [0.025, 0.072], p < .001; replicating the results of Study 4), and fairness concerns (indirect effect = 0.101, 95% CI = [0.067, 0.137], p < .001). Fairness concerns were highly correlated with both measures of motivation to respond without prejudice (r_internal,fairness = .86; r_external,fairness = .68).	In the women overrepresented condition, however, there was only one significant mediator of the effect of descriptive feedback on the increased selection of men: fairness concerns (indirect effect = -0.012, 95% CI [-0.026, -0.002], p = .013) mediated this effect. Neither internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.010, 95% CI [-0.024, 0.001], p = .072) nor external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.003, 95% CI [-0.011, 0.003], p = .409) significantly mediated the decreased selection of women induced by descriptive feedback in the women overrepresented condition (though internal motivation to respond without prejudice was a marginally significant mediator). This is consistent with our theory that these mechanisms are only triggered when feedback suggests that a historically underrepresented group (e.g., women) has plausibly faced prejudice.
L157: Discussion
L158: 	This study shows that when women are underrepresented in a candidate pool, descriptive feedback about the prior fraction of women selected increases the likelihood of subsequently selecting a woman, replicating our findings from Studies 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B. However, when women are overrepresented, feedback produces a statistically smaller effect in the opposite direction, decreasing the selection of women. 
L159: 	Exploratory mediation analyses suggest that different mechanisms are key drivers of the effects of descriptive feedback on selection decisions after people learn that women were initially underrepresented versus overrepresented in their original pool of picks. Consistent with Study 4 and our theorizing, when women are underrepresented, feedback triggers a motivation to respond without prejudice, which prompts decision makers to select more women. However, when women are overrepresented, general concerns about treating men and women fairly emerge as the main mediator (notably, these concerns arise alongside a motivation to respond without prejudice when women are overrepresented). These fairness concerns drive people to select candidates who reduce gender imbalance.
L160: Benchmarking Study: Descriptive Feedback vs. Quotas to Promote Diversity

RESPONSE LETTER (current Gdoc state):
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---
May X, 2026

George Wu, Department Editor, Management Science

Re: MS‑BDE‑2025‑01479, “Does Feedback Enhance Diversity in Selection Decisions?”

Dear Dr. Wu,

We thank you for your thoughtful handling of our revised manuscript and for sending our paper back to the same two insightful reviewers for another round of helpful feedback. We appreciate the opportunity to address your remaining requests as well as the small comments from Reviewers 1 and 2, and we hope you will agree that in responding to each directive, we have further strengthened our paper.

Here is a summary of the most notable changes we have made to our paper in this revision:

We have streamlined the empirical sections of the paper following your guidance on length and repetition. The revised manuscript is now [X] pages shorter than our last draft, and the Methods and Results sections of each study have been shortened (the later studies have been tightened the most) to avoid unnecessary redundancy.
We ran a new, pre-registered study (N = 300) to confirm that the attributes of NPR experts selected in Study 1 summarized alongside their gender were rated as just as important as gender. This new study helps address the concern that differences in the importance of feedback about prior selections could explain our effects.
To address your concern that participants might already use comparison attributes “appropriately” in their initial selections (potentially explaining why feedback about race and gender appears uniquely effective in our studies), we conducted a new pooled analysis of Studies 2, 3, and 4B restricting our analyses to participants whose initial selections contained zero books or films with a given attribute. We propose this is a conservative signal of underrepresentation that should provoke a reaction to feedback regardless of which attribute is involved. Within this sample, we (unsurprisingly) still find that feedback about the race or gender of prior selectees significantly increased the probability of subsequently selecting a racial minority or woman, respectively. However, feedback about all other attributes from our studies pooled (e.g., a film’s year of release, a protagonist’s profession) did not significantly change subsequent selections in the predicted direction if an absence of an attribute signals an “inappropriate” level of representation. A Wald test confirms the difference in the effects of feedback about zero representation on these dimensions (race/gender vs. other attributes) is significant. We describe these new analyses in more detail below and in our revised manuscript on page X.
In response to Reviewer 2, we have updated the Introduction’s discussion of the current landscape around DEI in the U.S. and abroad as well as updating our Discussion’s handling of this topic. 
In response to Reviewer 1, we have modernized the references that anchor our theoretical framing in both the Introduction and General Discussion, drawing on more contemporary feedback, goal‑setting, and social‑norms work alongside the foundational citations from our prior draft.

Below we reproduce your letter and each of the reviews in their entirety, and we respond to every point made. We have provided text from the review team in a standard font and our responses appear in a bolded font for ease of differentiation.

Thank you again for giving us the opportunity to revise our manuscript.

DEPARTMENT EDITOR’S COMMENTS TO AUTHORS:

Thank you for your revision and your continued interest in Management Science.

I assigned your paper to the anonymous Associate Editor who asked for and received reviews from two of the three reviewers who reviewed the original submission.  You will find the comments of the reviewers at the bottom of this email.  The AE was unable to provide a report because of some other obligations, so you will find no AE report.
You can see that the two reviewers have read your manuscript and are pleased with your revisions.  They have essentially “signed off” on the paper.  (I will say more about what I’d like you to do about their brief remarks.). I independently read the paper and agree with the reviewers.  I think that you have done a very good job at responding to the comments of the reviewers and I think that the paper as a result is considerably stronger.
RESPONSE: Thank you very much for your thoughtful handling of our manuscript and for your careful, independent reading of the revision. We are grateful for the whole review team’s constructive engagement throughout this process. We believe that the review team’s feedback has meaningfully improved our paper, and we appreciate the opportunity to address the remaining points in our latest revision.
I am calling for a “Minor Revision” -- which I will handle myself and not send to the reviewers.  
RESPONSE: Thank you for the clear guidance and for offering to handle this revision yourself. A full overview of the most notable changes appears in the cover‑letter summary above, and our detailed point‑by‑point replies to Reviewers 1 and 2 appear below.
Reviewer 1 has asked for some updating of references and a bit of clarification in your writing.
RESPONSE: We have done our best to address both points. The Introduction and General Discussion now draw on more contemporary work in the feedback, goal‑setting, and social‑norms literatures (e.g., Locke & Latham, 2019; Itzchakov & Latham, 2018; Chen, Latham, & Piccolo, 2020; Schultz, Nolan, & Cialdini, 2018; Devine & Ash, 2022; Andor, Gerster, & Peters, 2020; Henry, Ferraro, & Kontoleon, 2019; Mertens & Schultz, 2021), alongside the foundational citations from our original manuscript, which we have retained. We have also expanded our Introduction’s theorizing (pp. X‑X) to clarify why descriptive feedback should shift selection decisions about women and underrepresented minorities even without a paired explicit goal: in this setting, we argue that there is a strong, implicit injunctive norm against prejudiced selection, and feedback makes prior behavior that could be interpreted as prejudicial salient alongside that implicit norm, which provokes behavior change. We address Reviewer 1’s specific suggestions in detail below.
Reviewer 3 has asked for a modification of some of the intro that won’t make this paper seem so “timestamped”. In addition, he/she has some questions about the theoretical positioning.  I think that the paper will be stronger if the authors address some of the “tension” the reviewer identifies with a study that provides more clarity, but I won’t make it a requirement. On the other hand, they should provide a more nuanced discussion of the issues the reviewer describes.
RESPONSE: We have addressed these points in the Introduction (pp. X) and General Discussion (pp. X). We discuss the long-term global support for corporate DEI and avoid referring to any “timestamped” trends..
We have also sought to clarify the relatively broad conditions under which we expect our theory to hold. In the revised manuscript, we acknowledge that firms’ pullbacks from explicit DEI commitments may reduce one source of external pressure on decision-makers to avoid patterns of selections that might be judged as signaling prejudice. At the same time, we explain that organizational commitments are not the only reason people would be expected to care about feedback on the low rates of race/gender diversity in  their past selectees. Anti-discrimination law, the visibility of selection decisions, employee and stakeholder expectations, broader reputational concerns, and individuals’ own egalitarian commitments should all continue to make race and gender consequential in selection contexts even if a specific employer is not supportive of DEI policies. We now state more clearly that descriptive feedback should be most likely to matter when past selection patterns could raise concerns about prejudice, and less likely to matter in environments where those concerns are less likely to arise. Consistent with your note that an additional study is not required, and with your separate request to streamline the manuscript, we address this issue narratively rather than empirically. Our point-by-point reply to Reviewer 2 dives into this more deeply, and our General Discussion now identifies exploring whether organizational DEI climate may moderate the effect of feedback about race/gender on subsequent selection decisions as a worthwhile direction for future research.
I have two remaining requests, one about style and one about analysis.  Although the paper is generally well-written and the studies are well-designed, I found reading the paper a bit of a slog.  Some of that is that much of the analysis was nearly identical across studies, and the repetitive style of reporting made the paper feel bulky.  I understand that my tastes for writing and streamlining might be idiosyncratic, but I wonder if there can be streamlining (as in Figure 2) in which some of the repeated analysis (like comparison between the theoretically targeted feedback and the “control” feedback) shows up in a Table with the relevant statistics.  I won’t make this a requirement, but I’d like the authors to take this feedback (no pun intended) seriously and consider whether there is something that can be done.  I will also add that the paper right now is close to the page limit since you have moved the figures and tables out of the main text (“All invited revisions must adhere to the following page limit: 47 pages with 25 lines of text per page (double spacing) or 32 pages with 33 lines of text per page (1.5 spacing). An online appendix will not count toward the page limit.” https://pubsonline.informs.org/page/mnsc/submission-guidelines)
RESPONSE: We thank you for this feedback and agree that the prior version’s repeated presentation of the same comparisons made the empirical sections longer than warranted. The revised manuscript is now [X] pages and reflects a substantial streamlining of the Methods and Results sections, particularly for later studies to avoid unnecessary repetition/redundancy. To that end, and following your guidance, we have relegated the reporting of the regression specifications behind the secondary feedback-about-race/gender-versus-other-attribute comparisons to a dedicated section of the Appendix, with explicit references from each Results section. 
I think that Study 4b goes a long way in terms of convincing me that there is something special about gender/racial etc representational feedback relative to feedback on other attributes.  One though and one request.  Although I think that the package of studies is very compelling, I still found myself wishing that you had tested whether the alternative descriptive feedback that you shared was on par with gender in terms of importance.  My intuition, for example, in Study 1 is that “(1) were under 50 years old, (2) were based on the West Coast (of the United States), and (3) worked at a university” would be seen as less important than gender.  Two suggestions -- you could get a separate group and “post-test” some of these items and if they are as important or nearly as important report that.  If on the other hand, they are a lot less important, I would ask you to consider running Study 1 again so that the paper starts with a strong study.
RESPONSE: Thank you for this suggestion. We ran the post-test you proposed and incorporated the result into the Methods section of Study 1 (p. X). Specifically, in new pre-registered study ([link to AsPredicted]), we recruited 300 Prolific participants to rate the importance of different attributes of experts selected to appear on NPR.  Specifically, our Study 1 offers participants feedback about the gender, age, location and employment status of a panel of 10 NPR experts who they selected to feature in upcoming NPR stories about the future of work.  Our new study randomly assigned each participant to rate the importance of one of these four attributes of NPR experts (specifically: how many were women, how many worked at a university, how many were under 50 years old, or how many were based on the West Coast of the United States) on a scale from 1 = “Not at all important” to 7 = “Very important”. Two of the three non-gender attributes were rated as significantly more important than gender (“were women”: Mean Importance = 3.64, SD = 1.76, n = 76; “worked at a university”: Mean Importance = 4.67, SD = 1.60; t(148.8) = −3.76, p < .001, d = −0.61;  “were under 50 years old”: Mean Importance = 4.44, SD = 1.73; t(149.0) = −2.81, p = .006, d = −0.46). The third, “based on the West Coast of the United States,” did not differ significantly from gender in importance (Mean Importance = 3.37, SD = 1.75; t(149.0) = 0.95, p = .343, d = +0.16). These results suggest that differences in the perceived importance of the type of feedback participants received about their selections in Study 1 cannot account for why only feedback about gender moved subsequent selections.
On the request, I liked Study 4b and think that it does a good job of showing that feedback about gender is different than feedback about other important dimensions.  In addition, your studies show that gender/race feedback lead subjects to adjust their portfolios about the base rate.  That said, I’m still left wondering whether your findings are showing what you say or it is just that people use these other measures appropriately in their initial selections.  I’d like you to at least discuss this possibility, and perhaps there is additional analysis that you can do to address this.
RESPONSE: Thank you for raising this possibility. We now both discuss it (see p. X) and a follow-up analysis that attempts to address this point. 
We expect that a reputational or image concern is activated only after participants receive descriptive feedback suggesting that women and minorities have been vastly underrepresented in their past selections compared to the U.S. population. If underrepresentation of any group is responsible for our effects, then if the descriptive feedback we provided on some other selection attribute (say, the age of prior selectees) suggested a massive underrepresentation (say, of people over 50), this might drive a similar reaction. We conducted an additional analysis to try to address this possibility. Assuming that selecting zero options with a given attribute would always signal underrepresentation, we test the hypothesis that feedback shifts in who is subsequently selected to make up for underrepresentation not just when it comes to race and gender but on any dimension. To examine this hypothesis, we pooled data from Studies 2, 3A, 3B, and 4B (clustering standard errors by participant). We exclude Study 4A from this analysis because no participants in that study made initial selections containing zero of any of the comparison attributes, meaning there is no comparable “zero-baseline” cell to contrast against the race/gender feedback effect. We look only at observations involving participants who made an initial set of selections that included zero books or movies with a given attribute (e.g., a set of films in Study 3A that included zero films released after 2010, or a set of books in Study 4B that included zero books with women authors). We find that among participants who selected zero women or racial minorities initially, across all studies, race and gender feedback significantly increases the probability of selecting a racial minority or woman as their final selection, respectively, by 22.50 percentage points (p < .001, N = 864). Among participants who initially selected zero movies, books, or authors with any of the other attributes under study (e.g., budget, year of release, or protagonist’s profession), feedback informing them that 0% of their selectees had those other attributes did not significantly increase their probability of subsequently selecting an additional movie, book, or author with the relevant attribute (estimated effect = +7.25 percentage points; p = .19, N = 414). A Wald test of the difference between the two pooled coefficients confirms that the pooled effect of feedback on subsequent choices is significantly larger when feedback is about the race or gender of initial selections than when it is about other features of initial selections (p = .016, 95% CI [+2.87, +27.63]). We have added several sentences to the Discussion section of Study 4 (p. X) summarizing these analyses and pointing the interested reader to a new appendix section describing the results in more detail (see Appendix Section X).

Thank you again for your interest in Management Science.  I’m delighted with your revision, and look forward to your next revision (instructions on submitting a revision below).
RESPONSE: Thank you again for your thoughtful handling of our manuscript across both rounds of review, and for the opportunity to submit this revision.

Associate Editor’s text comments
(There are no comments. See “instructions for viewing the reports” above to find any review files.)
Reviewer: 1
Comments:
-I’m always pleased when a research team takes feedback from reviews seriously, conducts more experiments to resolve some questions and is more circumspect about their conclusions: all of that seems to be true here.
I really like the two studies that were added to the paper (particularly the library reading list study as I thought this was a bigger issue of the last submission). I also think it is nice that they provide data to show the “reverse” discrimination effects here. I think they now have clear evidence for both the motive to reduce prejudice and the additional motive of wanting to treat others the same.
They also include more relevant JDM literature here to further clarify the importance of their point of their findings—both being more circumspect about their scope and detailing precisely what they found.
RESPONSE: Thank you for your kind words about our revision and for the careful guidance you have provided on how to improve our paper.
-Small things to think about for revision:
For the point about explicit goals being necessarily you cite some older stuff (e.g., Kluger & DeNisi, 1996; Schultz et al.,2007), any updated cites you can chuck in? Just makes it clearer how this is fitting in with contemporary literature in this area given that this is the first implication you discuss and the bigger one, I’d like to see a bit more there.
RESPONSE: Thank you for this helpful suggestion. We have updated our citations so we now cite Locke and Latham (2019) alongside the classic Locke and Latham (2002) as well as Schultz, Nolan, and Cialdini (2018) alongside the classic Schultz et al. (2007). These new citations reference contemporary updates to two foundational pieces we previously cited.
This could be added to the intro as well, there the most recent paper is from like 2016 and that is just showing that the pairing works, not that the pairing in necessary. Not required, but might be helpful to beef that up as it is the primary obligation. Also, you could discuss if you think this happens here because that other goal is emphasized enough to people. Expanding a bit more on the theory there might be helpful for the theory piece.
RESPONSE: Thank you for pressing us on this point. We have refreshed the introduction’s feedback and goals citations to draw on more recent work, including Locke and Latham (2019), Itzchakov and Latham (2018), Chen, Latham, and Piccolo (2020), Schultz, Nolan, and Cialdini (2018), and Devine and Ash (2022); and we have added applied work that the reviewer’s prior comment first prompted us to incorporate (Andor, Gerster, & Peters, 2020; Henry, Ferraro, & Kontoleon, 2019; Mertens & Schultz, 2021).
More importantly, we have also expanded the theoretical framing (pp. X-X) to discuss how the classical feedback literature establishes that pairing feedback with an explicit goal works, but consistent with the broader logic of this literature, feedback regulates behavior only when there is a standard against which past performance can be evaluated. Our argument is that descriptive feedback can also be effective in domains where a strong implicit standard is already entrenched, such that no explicit goal need be paired alongside the feedback to make it useful. More specifically, we discuss how feedback evoking the past treatment of women and racial minorities provides a clean test of this theory. We propose that anti-discrimination law, social and reputational pressures to behave in ways that are not prejudicial, and selectors’ personally held egalitarian self-image can jointly sustain an entrenched injunctive norm against prejudiced selection (Plant & Devine, 1998; Crandall & Eshleman, 2003; Álvarez-Benjumea, 2023). When descriptive feedback reveals a discrepancy between this implicit standard and past behavior, we theorize that a motivation to respond without prejudice is activated even in the absence of a specific external goal. 
-I like figure 2.
-I also like that you mention that these effects might be even stronger with more reputation management public pressure, despite showing that in these studies that part is not necessary.
RESPONSE: We appreciate your comments on Figure 2 and on our discussion of reputation management, and we are grateful for your thoughtful feedback throughout the review process. 
Reviewer: 2
Comments:
Thanks for the opportunity to review this paper, which has improved substantially since the last round. I appreciate the authors’ attentiveness to most of the comments raised previously. After reading this version, I have two comments.
RESPONSE: Thank you for noting the improvements to the manuscript. We are grateful for your feedback, which has strengthened the paper.
First, the paper, as written, feels a bit dated in several spots (e.g., early intro, then pp.4-5, and Discussion) given all that has transpired with respect to pull back on DEI commitments and practices in the US. It’s not clear how many companies are still providing diversity scorecards or numerical feedback about demographic representation, but it’s certainly a smaller number than when this research project began, and perhaps, more importantly, the broader tides have shifted. The one sentence on p.5 – “and despite…” - is not sufficient and is perhaps misleading. The authors should find a way to acknowledge this through the narrative, and more accurately depict the current state so that the article does not feel timestamped and detached as if it was written in a pre-2024 period. While doing this, they should find a way to reinforce the reasons why their question and intervention remain important.
RESPONSE: Thank you for this comment. We have updated the Introduction (pp. X) and the Discussion to try to avoid the issue that it could read as “timestamped” either in the current era in which there has been backlash against DEI (which may or may not endure) or in the post-2020, pre-2024 era of massively increasing support for DEI in the United States.
The revised manuscript now more thoroughly discusses the fluctuating corporate posture toward DEI in the United States while noting that despite changing tides domestically, regulatory demand for transparency around demographic representation is expanding internationally. For example, Australia’s Workplace Gender Equality Amendment (Closing the Gender Pay Gap) Act 2023 mandates public reporting of firm-level gender representation and pay-gap data (Ressia, 2024); the EU Pay Transparency Directive 2023/970 requires member-state transposition by June 2026 (Mignano, 2024); and the EU Women on Boards Directive 2022/2381 establishes a 40% representation objective for the underrepresented gender on listed-company boards. Second, within the U.S., public and stakeholder sentiment has shifted more slowly than corporate and legal rhetoric. For instance a 2025 Bentley/Gallup survey reports that 69% of U.S. adults believe businesses should promote DEI (Bentley/Gallup, 2025), and anti-DEI shareholder proposals have failed at numerous prominent organizations, including Costco, Apple, Levi’s, John Deere, Goldman Sachs, and others (CBS, 2025; Marketplace, 2025). Third, many U.S. firms appear to have simply rebranded or reframed diversity-related work rather than dismantling it entirely since 2024. For example, Constellation Brands now uses “Inclusive Culture Team,” Kohl’s has shifted to “Chief Inclusion and Belonging Officer,” and Nationwide and UPS have migrated toward “belonging,” “respect,” “fairness,” or “inclusive experiences” framings (CNBC, 2025; HRGrapevine, 2025; Marketplace, 2026). Consistent with this pattern, Paradigm reports a 22% decrease in Fortune 100 references to “DEI/diversity” between 2023 and 2024 alongside a 59% increase in references to “belonging” (Paradigm, 2025).This comment helped us sharpen our discussion of why the paper’s central question remains timeless. The paper’s contribution is not simply to demonstrate that descriptive feedback may serve as a useful managerial tool for organizations seeking to enhance their diversity. Instead, it is to show that descriptive feedback about past selection decisions can change subsequent decisions when the patterns highlighted raise concerns about appearing prejudiced or failing to live up to your own egalitarian standards. To the extent that corporate messaging and formal diversity commitments are one source of people’s motivation to respond without prejudice, their retreat may weaken the effects we’ve documented. However, such organizational commitments are only one small reason why people prefer not to behave in ways that could be seen as prejudiced. Anti-discrimination law, international transparency requirements, employee and stakeholder expectations, and individuals’ own egalitarian commitments continue to make race and gender consequential dimensions of evaluation, even when organizations no longer foreground DEI policies. We now explain that descriptive feedback should be most influential when past selection patterns raise active concerns about prejudice, and less influential in contexts where those concerns are absent, muted, or explicitly rejected. Practically, this also reinforces the relevance of studying descriptive feedback: in settings where organizations are reluctant to issue explicit diversity goals, it remains important to understand whether making past selection patterns visible can still shape who is subsequently selected, hired, promoted, platformed, or featured.

Somewhat related, I still think more can be done to make the case for the theoretical contribution. Here is one way I think the authors can do this. I think they can start with language that more tentatively bounds the scope and generalizability of the authors’ claims. It currently reads as if this intervention would work similarly in any organizational context. But if the entire process hinges on the motivation to not appear prejudiced, it stands to reason that this motivation will not be the same across culturally heterogeneous organizations, some of which tightly identify with egalitarian ideals and inclusion, whereas others do not, and have recently retreated and even disavowed these “woke” metrics in place of a sole focus on merit. The fact that individuals’ political ideology (perhaps an indirect proxy for motivation to respond without prejudice) did not work out in Study 4, leaves this somewhat unaddressed empirically. There is a tension here because the author also underscore this motivation to respond without prejudice as central to their theoretical contribution (one of two main contributions). To really nail this mechanism more definitively and show scope conditions (both of which can help solidify the contribution), I could imagine a study in which the authors more directly manipulated aspects of the situation to increase or decrease individuals’ motivation to respond without prejudice and then measured the effects on subsequent decision making. This would help them more compellingly account for when these effects do vs do not emerge and why. There are already a bunch of studies in this package, however, so whether the authors should engage this issue empirically or narratively is a question for the editorial team.
RESPONSE: Thank you for this thoughtful comment. As you note, we did test whether political ideology moderated our effect in Study 4 and overall observed no significant interaction. While we are cautious about over-interpreting null results, the pattern is suggestive that the effect operates across partisan lines, leaving room for the external and internal motivations to respond without prejudice described above to be at work. Consistent with this interpretation, another recent study by Kirgios et al. (2022) found in a field experiment that when seeking help from city counselors, women and racial minorities benefited from explicitly naming their demographic identity in an ask just as much when contacting Republicans and Democrats, and the underlying mechanism identified was a motivation to control prejudice - the same mechanism we identify as mediating our findings. Overall, the existing empirical evidence suggests political ideology does not seem to moderate motivation to control prejudice.
We share your view that there are already quite a lot of studies in this paper. Rather than adding another, we have sought to engage with the important issues you raise narratively (this also aligns with the DE’s guidance to prioritize streamlining the manuscript).  Specifically, we have sought to sharpen our discussion of our theoretical contribution in the revised General Discussion (pp. X), building on the scope-condition discussion already present in the Future Directions and Limitations section.
In particular, we now explicitly distinguish between two pathways through which descriptive feedback can change selection decisions. One pathway, the external motivation to control prejudice, should be driven both by a firm’s norms but also by the fact that selection decisions are often observable to colleagues, job candidates, supervisors, and other stakeholders. The implicit injunctive norm against prejudicial behavior is largely sustained by anti-discrimination laws, employee and customer scrutiny, and broader reputational concerns. The second pathway, internal motivation to control prejudice, by contrast, refers to selectors’ personally held egalitarian beliefs and self-image as non-prejudiced decision-makers. This second pathway should not vary with organizational climate, and it is the pathway most directly supported by Study 4 (a study in which feedback was delivered privately and internal motivation to respond without prejudice mediated subsequent selections).
Motivation to respond without prejudice is a key mechanism isolated in this paper, but it may not be the only mechanism descriptive feedback activates to change behavior. Fairness norms and broader concerns about appropriate representation may also drive the effects of feedback about past selections on future selection decisions (see also Study 5’s mechanism analysis, which found that fairness concerns drive people to select men when women are overrepresented in order to reduce gender imbalance). We now note that it would be valuable for future research to explore these additional plausible contributing mechanisms. 


References

Andor, M. A., Gerster, A., & Peters, J. (2020). Social norms and energy conservation beyond the US. Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, 103, 102351. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jeem.2020.102351
Bentley University & Gallup. (2025). Bentley-Gallup Business in Society Survey: 2025 report. Gallup. https://www.gallup.com/file/analytics/696014/Gallup-Bentley-University_Business-In-Society%20Survey_2025%20Report.pdf
CBS News. (2025, January 24). Costco shareholders reject an anti-DEI measure, after Walmart and others end diversity programs. https://www.cbsnews.com/news/costco-dei-policy-board-statement-shareholder-meeting-vote/
Chen, X., Latham, G. P., & Piccolo, R. F. (2020). An enumerative review and a meta-analysis of primed goal effects on organizational behavior. Applied Psychology, 70(1), 216-253. https://doi.org/10.1111/apps.12239
Devine, P. G., & Ash, T. L. (2022). Diversity training goals, limitations, and promise: A review of the multidisciplinary literature. Annual Review of Psychology, 73(1), 403-429. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-060221-122215
Directive (EU) 2022/2381 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 November 2022 on improving the gender balance among directors of listed companies and related measures. Official Journal of the European Union, L 315, 44-59. http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2022/2381/oj
Directive (EU) 2023/970 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 May 2023 to strengthen the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value between men and women through pay transparency and enforcement mechanisms. Official Journal of the European Union, L 132, 21-44. http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2023/970/oj
Dungan, R. (2025, March 31). Semantics: Has DEI actually gone to ground, or has it just been rebranded? HR Grapevine. https://www.hrgrapevine.com/us/content/article/2025-03-31-has-dei-really-gone-to-ground-or-has-it-just-assumed-a-new-identity
Elias, J., & Palmer, A. (2025, March 30). In Trump era, companies are rebranding DEI efforts, not giving up. CNBC. https://www.cnbc.com/2025/03/30/in-trump-era-companies-are-rebranding-dei-efforts-not-giving-up.html
Henry, M. L., Ferraro, P. J., & Kontoleon, A. (2019). The behavioural effect of electronic home energy reports: Evidence from a randomised field trial in the United States. Energy Policy, 132, 1256-1261. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2019.06.039
Itzchakov, G., & Latham, G. P. (2018). The moderating effect of performance feedback and the mediating effect of self-set goals on the primed goal-performance relationship. Applied Psychology, 69(2), 379-414. https://doi.org/10.1111/apps.12176
Levi, A., & Fried, Y. (2024). Diversity, equity, and inclusion programs’ emphasis on symbolism: Causes and consequences. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 46(1), 172-187. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.2834
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (2019). The development of goal setting theory: A half century retrospective. Motivation Science, 5(2), 93-105. https://doi.org/10.1037/mot0000127
Marketplace. (2025, May 22). Costco doubles down on DEI and benefits. Marketplace. https://www.marketplace.org/story/2025/05/22/costco-doubles-down-on-dei-and-benefits
Marketplace. (2026). [Reporting on firm-level DEI rebranding toward “belonging,” “respect,” “fairness,” and “inclusive experiences” framings, including Nationwide and UPS]. Marketplace. [URL pending verification]
Mertens, S. N., & Schultz, P. W. (2021). Referent group specificity: Optimizing normative feedback to increase residential recycling. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 73, 101541. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvp.2020.101541
Mignano, V. (2024). Gender Pay Gap: The Protection of the Right to Equal Pay under the Pay Transparency Directive. Zeitschrift für Europarechtliche Studien, 27(3), 371-401. https://doi.org/10.5771/1435-439X-2024-3-371
Paradigm. (2025). [Fortune 100 DEI/diversity language analysis report]. Paradigm. [URL pending verification]
Ressia, S. (2024). Addressing gender inequality issues in Australia: An annual review of developments. Journal of Industrial Relations, 66(5), 742-758. https://doi.org/10.1177/00221856241295490
Schultz, P. W., Nolan, J. M., & Cialdini, R. B. (2018). The constructive, destructive, and reconstructive power of social norms: Reprise. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 13(2), 249-254. https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691617693325