---
Does Feedback Enhance Diversity in Selection Decisions?
Abstract
Many organizations provide employees feedback on the demographics of whom they’ve chosen to spotlight, hire, and promote, hoping to spur more diverse selections. However, it is an open question whether providing purely descriptive feedback can improve diversity. We theorized and showed that descriptive feedback highlighting low past selection rates of women or racial minorities (e.g., 5% of previous experts you interviewed were women) triggers a motivation to respond without prejudice, increasing the subsequent selection of members of underrepresented groups. Conversely, providing descriptive feedback about low selection rates of other attributes (e.g., areas of expertise, recent release dates) that doesn’t evoke image or reputational concerns has less influence on future decisions. We demonstrated these patterns across seven pre-registered experiments (total N=6,502), including one framed field experiment (Study 2). In Study 4, we identified motivation to respond without prejudice as a mediator of the effect of descriptive feedback about past choices on future selections of women and racial minorities. Moreover, in Study 5 we showed that when women are overrepresented, the effect of descriptive feedback reverses in direction, increasing the subsequent selection of men (due to concerns about fairness), but this effect is significantly smaller in magnitude than the standard effect produced when women are underrepresented. Practically, the effects of descriptive feedback were 45-80% as large as imposing a strict quota requiring that at least one woman or racial minority be selected for a given opportunity, highlighting that descriptive feedback is a light-touch but potentially powerful intervention for shifting inclusive behaviors. 


In 2013, editors at National Public Radio (NPR) added a new prompt to their reporters’ daily workflow: when filing a story, journalists would be required to log basic demographic information about each source quoted, such as that source’s gender and race. From 2013-2021, these data were summarized for teams annually. Beginning in 2021, each reporter’s content management system began displaying up-to-date summary statistics describing whom they had quoted in the last month, documenting, among other things, the share of their sources who were women or racial minorities (Fu, 2021). Many other organizations have similar practices, including Salesforce, which shows monthly “diversity scorecards” to senior leaders detailing headcount, hiring, attrition, and promotion data by employees’ gender (globally) and race (in the U.S.; Salesforce, 2020) and the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), where internal managers have reviewed the demographics of on-air contributors monthly since 2017 in an effort known as “the 50:50 Project” (BBC, 2021). NPR, Salesforce, and the BBC have claimed to find value in such programs. However, the actual impact of such practices on promoting organizational diversity efforts remains unclear. In this paper, we experimentally examine how decisions shift when such policies are deployed. Specifically, when the demographics of those who have already been selected for an opportunity are shared with the decision makers who chose them, we ask: does this descriptive feedback change who is selected for opportunities in the future? 
Past research has suggested that feedback is highly motivating when it signals a clear gap between current outcomes and an explicit goal (Latham & Locke, 1991; Locke & Latham, 2002). Purely descriptive feedback, however —the type NPR, Salesforce, and the BBC rolled out and that is studied in this paper — simply reports on past choices or behavior without providing or highlighting an accompanying goal or norm. Descriptive feedback might summarize the percentage of past sources you interviewed who were women, your earnings, or your step count, but it would not recommend how many sources should be women, how much you should earn, or how many steps you should take, nor would it convey a social norm (or information about your progress towards such a target or norm; Larimer et al., 2023). 
According to Feedback Intervention Theory, feedback most effectively regulates behavior change when paired with explicit goals, norms or targets that allow recipients to gauge their performance and direct their efforts accordingly (Kluger & DeNisi, 1996, 1998). Consistent with this prediction, Bandura and Cervone (1983) demonstrated that participants who received both explicit performance goals and feedback about their progress on a strenuous physical task exerted significantly more effort than those who received either goals alone, feedback alone, or neither; and feedback alone had no effect on effort. The effect of feedback paired with goals has been replicated repeatedly, changing behaviors ranging from energy conservation (Abrahamse et al., 2005; Becker, 1978; Karlin et al., 2015) to diet (Schembre et al., 2018; Shilts, Horowitz, & Townsend, 2004; Tate et al., 2001) and exercise (Bravata et al., 2007; Samdal et al., 2017).
Just as feedback accompanied by goals can motivate behavior change, past research has shown that explicitly communicating what behavior is desirable (an “injunctive norm”) alongside feedback reliably changes behavior (Allcott, 2011; Bhanot, 2021; Cialdini et al., 2006; Tiefenbeck et al., 2018). For example, Tiefenbeck et al. (2018) demonstrated that smart shower meters displaying feedback on consumers’ water usage alongside an explicit injunctive norm to use less water, communicated via an image of a polar bear on a shrinking ice floe, reduced water usage by 22%. Similarly, Schultz et al. (2007) found that when households received feedback about their energy usage alongside an explicit injunctive norm communicating that conservation was desirable as well as a social comparison to the energy use of their neighbors, energy consumption dropped by 5.7%. However, consistent with other studies, providing consumers with energy consumption feedback alone, on average, had no effect. 
Altogether, a large body of research has shown that providing people with descriptive feedback about their past behavior alongside a goal, a social norm or an explicit injunctive norm motivates behavior change by letting people know both where they stand and what constitutes desirable performance. Purely descriptive feedback, in contrast, provides information absent evaluation or guidance. According to Feedback Intervention Theory, such feedback is often ineffective because it lacks a benchmark against which people can evaluate their past behavior and consider making a change (Kluger & DeNisi, 1996, 1998). However, in this paper, we theorize and show that purely descriptive feedback reliably changes behavior when it suggests that a person’s past behavior violates pre-existing implicit injunctive norms regarding behaving in an unprejudiced manner. 
Descriptive Feedback about Diversity-Related Decisions
Promoting diversity has become a priority for many organizations, with companies around the world investing substantially in diversity initiatives and making public commitments to increase the representation of women and minorities in their ranks (Kirkland & Bohnet, 2017; Society for Human Resource Management [SHRM], 2022). Despite these efforts, many organizations have not yet managed to build a diverse workforce (Field et al., 2023) and remain eager for new tools to support their diversification goals given the potential benefits of harnessing all types of talent (Richard, 2000; Hsieh et al., 2019; cf. Jehn et al., 1999). Providing regular feedback to employees about the demographics of whom they have previously chosen to spotlight, hire and promote is an approach some organizations (such as NPR, Salesforce, and the BBC) are adopting in the hopes that such feedback will spur decision makers to select more diverse candidates, but it is an open question whether purely descriptive feedback can be an effective intervention. 
We theorize that diversity-related descriptive feedback about selection decisions (e.g., the racial or gender composition of those selected for past opportunities) can be effective at promoting diversification in subsequent selection decisions even in the absence of an explicit goal or norm when it suggests past choices have lacked diversity. We further posit that such feedback can be more effective at influencing future choices than descriptive feedback about other features of selection decisions. Why? Because diversity-related feedback can draw attention to the potential reputational and self-image ramifications of choices even in the absence of an explicit goal. Specifically, we propose that when such feedback highlights the underrepresentation of women or racial minorities in past selections, it will raise concerns that past behavior could be seen as discriminatory and therefore risk rebuke. This is a reaction referred to as “motivation to respond without prejudice” (Plant & Devine, 1998), and it is driven by people’s desire to (1) avoid negative repercussions from others (i.e., to protect their reputation; Leary & Kowalski, 1990; Lerner & Tetlock, 1999) and (2) maintain a positive self-view or self-image (Plant & Devine, 1998, 2009; Crandall & Eshleman, 2003; Apfelbaum et al., 2008). 
In many societies worldwide, it is considered unacceptable to exhibit racial or gender prejudice, with legal frameworks and organizational policies supporting diversity across numerous countries (e.g., the UK Equality Act 2010; EU Council Directive 2000/43/EC; Civil Rights Act of 1964, Álvarez-Benjumea, 2023). In the United States, for example, outward expressions of prejudice are both a societally sanctioned norm violation (Álvarez-Benjumea, 2023) and a violation of the law, which prohibits acts of discrimination based on gender or race (Civil Rights Act of 1964). Similarly, in the European Union, the Racial Equality Directive explicitly prohibits racial discrimination in the labor market, codifying the region’s strong normative commitment to equal treatment regardless of racial or ethnic origin (Council Directive 2000/43/EC). Moreover, many organizations have explicitly committed to increasing the representation of women and racial minorities (among other groups) within their ranks (Ellis, 2025). And despite recent rollbacks of diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies at some organizations in the United States (Heaton, 2025), recent surveys indicate that the majority of Americans still hold favorable views about DEI (Minkin, 2024; Kidwai, 2025). 
People’s drive to respond without prejudice can be a powerful motivator of behavior change, influencing such outcomes as their willingness to refer racial minorities for professional development opportunities (Kirgios et al., 2022) and time invested in prejudice-reducing training (Plant & Devine, 2009). More broadly, past research has demonstrated that people are motivated to conform to the implicit injunctive norms—the norms about how a person should behave—that they perceive to be prevalent in their cultures and organizations (Cialdini, Reno & Kallgren, 1990). While descriptive norms (information about what others do) can influence behavior by providing a social benchmark (Bicchieri & Xiao, 2009), injunctive norms influence behavior via the suggestion that there could be social sanctions for deviance or social rewards for compliance. In one demonstration of the power of injunctive norms’ influence on behavior, a year-long field experiment in Rwanda tested the effects of exposure to a radio soap opera portraying characters who challenged prejudicial norms. This soap opera communicated an explicit injunctive norm that prejudicial behavior was unacceptable, and it changed listeners’ behavior to be less prejudicial (Paluck, 2009).
We propose that when descriptive feedback reveals that an evaluator’s past selections included few women or racial minorities, even in the absence of a goal, target or explicit norm, the prevalent implicit injunctive norm that prejudice is undesirable may come to mind (Barr et al., 2018; Dovidio & Gaertner, 2004). And we theorize that this implicit injunctive norm will trigger concerns that past selection patterns could be interpreted as prejudiced, either by others or by themselves. We predict that this realization will activate motivation to respond without prejudice—prompting evaluators to adjust their behavior to avoid appearing biased, driven by both external reputational concerns and internal desires to maintain a positive self-view (Plant & Devine, 1998, 2009). In this way, we theorize that descriptive feedback about the race and gender of those who have been selected for opportunities in the past that conveys these groups have been left out will lead evaluators to adjust their behavior to make more inclusive selection decisions (i.e., selecting more women and racial minorities) in the future due to existing, implicit injunctive norms, which need not be explicitly stated in this case. In doing so, we provide evidence that sharing descriptive feedback about past selectees is a low-cost intervention that can generally be employed by managers to increase the representation of underrepresented demographic groups without relying on quotas or other illegal or heavy-handed policies that can spark backlash (Dobbin & Kalev, 2016; Leslie, 2019).
Summary of the Current Research
We present a series of experiments demonstrating that in environments where women and racial minorities are underrepresented, descriptive feedback about the gender and race of past selectees reliably motivates evaluators to increase the representation of these groups in future selections, and this effect is mediated by the motivation to respond without prejudice (see Table 1 for a summary of all studies and key results). Furthermore, we show that descriptive feedback about the race and gender of past selectees leads to larger changes in future selection decisions than descriptive feedback about other important features of past selectees (e.g., subject area expertise, experience).
We also show how the effect of descriptive feedback on future selection decisions shifts when historically marginalized candidates are underrepresented versus overrepresented in candidate pools. In Study 5 we show that when women are overrepresented, the effect of descriptive feedback on subsequent selections of women is significantly smaller in magnitude and reverses in direction (increasing selections of men). Further, we show that this reversed effect is mediated by general fairness concerns rather than concerns about prejudice. Altogether, these findings are consistent with the idea that feedback produces a motivation to respond without prejudice when people fear their selections signal that they have failed to be inclusive of historically oppressed groups. However, when women and racial minorities are overrepresented, descriptive feedback (communicating that these groups have been selected at a disproportionate rate) no longer signals an implicit injunctive norm violation, but it can still trigger concerns about ensuring balanced representation (Adams, 1965; Colquitt, 2001).
Our focus in this paper is on selection decisions, given how critical such choices are for many organizational outcomes, including who is hired and retained (Sackett & Lievens, 2008). Those hired, promoted, featured on prominent panels, selected for awards, and given the opportunity to have their work advertised receive these opportunities thanks to selection decisions made by others. Better understanding how feedback can influence such selection decisions may offer avenues for increasing the diversity of those featured in many high-profile groups (Porter & Serra, 2020, Preston & Carton, 2024). 
We examine how evaluators respond to feedback about portfolios (i.e., sets) of past selections rather than one-off selection decisions. Because diversity (or a lack thereof) is only a property of groups, and because an absence of diversity is more likely to be noticed in larger groups (Rai et al., 2024) and when evaluating past decisions about groups rather than individuals (Chang et al., 2020), we would expect feedback about any one, prior selection decision to be less likely to trigger concerns about a norms violation than the type of portfolio-based feedback we study. 
Our work relates to prior research showing that how choices are presented affects the diversity of selections. Specifically, past research has shown that when people make multiple selections simultaneously (rather than sequentially) (Simonson, 1990), evaluate candidates side-by-side (rather than separately) (Bohnet et al., 2016), and make sets of selection decisions rather than one-at-a-time selection decisions, they favor more diverse candidates (Chang et al., 2020). We hold all such presentation factors constant across conditions in all of our studies, thereby isolating the casual effect of descriptive feedback about past portfolio composition on subsequent selections. 
------------------------------------
Insert Table 1 about here
------------------------------------

Overview of Studies
We present seven pre-registered experiments (total N = 6,502), including one framed field experiment (Harrison & List, 2004), to examine how descriptive feedback about a portfolio of past choices affects subsequent selection decisions. In most of our studies, we employ a candidate selection paradigm illustrated in Figure 1. Participants begin by choosing a portfolio of six to seven candidates (e.g., panelists, authors) from a larger candidate pool including twenty-four to twenty-six options (in Study 1, participants are simply told to imagine they have made prior selections and informed about the composition of those prior selections). After making their initial selections (or being told about them in Study 1), participants are randomly assigned to receive two to three pieces of descriptive feedback summarizing the characteristics of their initial selectees. Participants assigned to a treatment condition receive feedback summarizing either the gender (Studies 1, 3B, 4B and 5) or racial (Studies 3A and 4A) composition of their initially selected candidates (e.g., the percentage who were female; the percentage who were racial minorities) alongside one or two pieces of additional descriptive feedback about their initially selected candidates to both (1) obfuscate the purpose of the research and (2) measure the impact of such feedback focused on non-DEI-related characteristics of past selectees (e.g., the percentage of prior selectees who were CEOs; the percentage who were genre-spanning writers). Participants assigned to the control condition also receive descriptive feedback about their initially selected candidates (e.g., the percentage who were technologists; the percentage who were born in the 1800s), but this feedback never references the race or gender composition of prior selectees. Finally, participants are given the opportunity to select one or more additional candidates to add to the group (e.g., of panelists or authors) that they just created. Our outcomes of interest are the attributes of these subsequent selectees—and in particular, their gender (in Studies 1, 3B, 4B and 5) or race (in Studies 3A and 4A). Data for Studies 1–5 as well as analysis code for all studies can be found on OSF: https://osf.io/zxyw2/.
------------------------------------
Insert Figure 1 and 2 about here
------------------------------------
We established across all seven experiments in this paper that in settings where women (or racial minorities) are underrepresented, providing descriptive feedback about the gender (or race) of past selectees alongside other feedback about past selectees’ characteristics increases evaluators’ subsequent likelihood of selecting women (or racial minorities). In Study 2, we established the external validity of our findings through a framed field experiment (on a university campus). To further establish that our findings are not merely driven by a demand effect, we also showed that the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender or race of past selectees is reliably and significantly larger than that of providing descriptive feedback about other attributes of past selectees (e.g., the fraction in a given profession, the fraction in a given birth cohort) on participants’ likelihood of selecting candidates with those other attributes (e.g., a candidate in a given profession or a given birth cohort), even when those other attributes are rated as similarly important as candidates’ demographics (Studies 1, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B). In Studies 4A and 4B, we showed that motivation to respond without prejudice mediated the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender (or race) of past selectees on the likelihood of subsequently selecting a woman (or racial minority) candidate. And finally, in Study 5, we showed that providing feedback about the percentage of past selectees who were women only subsequently increased the selection of women when women are underrepresented in the initial candidate pool; when women are overrepresented, the effect is significantly smaller in magnitude and reverses in direction (decreasing the selection of women), and is mediated by fairness concerns rather than concerns about prejudice.

Study 1

In Study 1, participants imagined assuming the role of National Public Radio (NPR) producers selecting experts to interview for stories about the future of work in America. We tested the effect of providing participants with descriptive feedback about the gender composition of their previously selected expert sources on their subsequent hypothetical selections of experts for future NPR stories. This study was designed to imitate the real feedback system currently used at NPR to provide producers with summary statistics about their past sources (Fu, 2021).
Methods
Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/vazsm/), we recruited 1,000 participants through Prolific to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (55.4% women; 43.7% men; 0.9% non-binary; Mage = 43.80; 72.3% White, 13.2% Black, 6.5% Hispanic, 7.2% Asian).
Procedure. Participants were told to imagine they worked as producers at NPR and were responsible for identifying and booking expert sources to interview for various news segments and stories. Participants were informed that for the past three months, they had been working on a series of stories about the future of work in America and had selected and interviewed a portfolio of ten experts for these stories.
Participants were then randomly assigned to one of two conditions: (1) the no gender feedback condition or (2) the gender feedback condition. In the no gender feedback condition, participants received descriptive feedback summarizing the percentage of experts they had selected over the past three months who (1) were under 50 years old, (2) were based on the West Coast (of the United States), and (3) worked at a university. Notably, NPR has actually tracked each of these attributes of expert sources, which were deemed a priority, and displayed them to producers. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of past selectees who were women, presented alongside two of the three statistics presented in the no gender feedback condition drawn at random. 
After receiving descriptive feedback about the composition of their past expert selections, participants were asked to select three experts from a list of 25 candidates for an upcoming NPR segment on how artificial intelligence is reshaping employment and were provided with each candidate's name, area of expertise, and institutional affiliation. See Materials Section: Study 1 in the Appendix for complete study materials.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Insert Table 2 about here 
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Results
Following our pre-registration, we ran an ordinary least squares regression (OLS) predicting the proportion of women selected, with assignment to the gender feedback condition as our primary predictor and an indicator for assignment to stimulus Set 1.
As shown in Figure 3A and Model 1 of Table 2, participants selected a significantly higher proportion of women experts in the gender feedback condition (46.2% women experts selected) than in the no gender feedback condition (33.7% women experts selected; B = 0.125, 95% CI = [0.093, 0.157], t(997) = 7.58, p < .001). The effect was robust to controlling for participant demographics (Appendix Table S1).	To formally test whether offering feedback about the percentage of past experts who were women had a larger effect on the subsequent selection of women experts than offering feedback about other attributes had on the subsequent selection of experts with those attributes, we constructed three systems of simultaneous equations (Zellner, 1962). For each system, we included a pair of equations: one modeling the effect of random assignment to receive gender feedback and one modeling the effect of random assignment to receive feedback on another expert attribute (i.e., past selectees who were under 50 years old, based on the West Coast, or worked at a university, see Table 2, Models 5-8). We then used Wald tests to compare the treatment effects estimated in the paired equations, which confirmed that the effect of assignment to the gender feedback condition on the proportion of women experts selected was significantly larger than the effects of assignment to receive descriptive feedback about the percentage of past experts who were (1) under 50 years old (F(1, 3988) = 6.63, p = .010), (2) based on the West Coast (F(1, 3988) = 8.35, p = .004), or (3) worked at a university (F(1, 3988) = 12.84, p < .001) on subsequent selections of experts with those respective attributes. This pattern of findings held across stimuli sets (see footnote 2). 
Discussion
Study 1 mirrored a real organizational practice currently deployed by NPR and provides initial evidence that descriptive feedback about the gender composition of past selections can increase the subsequent selection of women, more so than feedback about other attributes. In our next study, we examine whether our effects hold when people make real, consequential decisions in the field rather than hypothetical choices in an online survey.
        ------------------------------------
Insert Figure 3 about here
------------------------------------

Study 2

	In Study 2, we conducted a framed field experiment (Harrison & List, 2004) to extend our key findings to an in-person, real choice environment in which participants were not aware they were under study. Here we tested whether the key effect of descriptive feedback on selection decisions held when evaluators were making incentive-compatible choices about which prominent figures they would like to feature in a public display in their organization. 
Methods
Participants. This study was pre-registered on AsPredicted (https://aspredicted.org/WYY_3PL). We recruited 302 participants to complete a 1-minute survey in exchange for a candy bar (52.52% men; 44.96% women; Mage = 25.11, 41.37% White, 10.79% Black, 4.68% Hispanic, 42.81% Asian) in a high-traffic pedestrian area at a midsize university in the Northeastern United States between March 27 and May 15, 2024. The IRB approved a waiver of informed consent, so participants were not told that they were participating in a research study.
Procedure. Student recruiters in school-branded clothing (truthfully) told passersby they were conducting a quick vote on which biographies should be displayed at the business school to encourage non-fiction reading; seven books with obscured covers on a table served as a visual prop (see Figure S1 in the Appendix). Participants who agreed were handed an iPad showing 25 well-known biographies, each with a cover thumbnail and a brief description (protagonist’s name, role, publication year, page count); five (20%) featured women protagonists.
Participants were instructed to vote for an initial portfolio of six biographies they would recommend for the on-campus display. After making their initial selections, participants were randomly assigned to either (1) the no gender feedback condition or (2) the gender feedback condition. In the no gender feedback condition, participants were presented with three pieces of descriptive feedback about their initial six book selections, specifically the percentage of biographies they had selected that (1) were over 500 pages, (2) were written in the past 25 years, and (3) featured an entertainer. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of biographies they had selected featuring a woman protagonist alongside two additional pieces of descriptive feedback that were randomly drawn from the list of three descriptive facts provided in the no gender feedback condition. After receiving descriptive feedback about the composition of their initial selected portfolio of six biographies, participants were asked to vote for a seventh and final biography from the original set–where their prior selections were highlighted–to include in the display.
------------------------------------
Insert Table 3 about here
------------------------------------
Results 
Initial selections featured women protagonists 25.2% of the time, with a slight imbalance across conditions (23.0% control vs. 27.3% treatment, p = .050). Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regression with robust standard errors to predict whether the seventh and final biography participants selected featured a woman. Participants were significantly more likely to choose a biography featuring a woman as their seventh and final selection in the gender feedback condition (35.10% did so) than in the no gender feedback condition (21.85% chose a woman; B = 0.132, 95% CI = [0.031, 0.234], t(302) = 2.56, p = .011, see Figure 3; Table 3, Model 1).
As was the case in Study 1, we found no significant effects of the impact of random assignment to receive descriptive feedback about another given biography attribute in a participant’s initial portfolio of choices on subsequent selections of biographies with that same attribute (all p’s ≥ .5; see Table 3 Models 2-4). 
Discussion
	Study 2 extends our findings in two important ways. First, we find that the effect persists in a field setting where participants made consequential choices. Second, unlike Study 1, here  participants received feedback about their own prior selections rather than hypothetical decisions—confirming that the effect arises even when people reflect on their own past choices. In the next study, we test whether providing feedback about the racial composition of past selectees increases future selections of racial minorities in an incentivized experiment. 
Study 3

In Studies 3A and 3B, participants again made a real decision (akin to Study 2) and selected a set of films about famous figures from history to include in a real Facebook advertising campaign. 
Study 3A

In Study 3A, we moved beyond testing the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of prior selectees to testing the effect of descriptive feedback about the race of initial selectees on subsequent selections. 

Methods
Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/4z8hk), we recruited 1,000 participants on Amazon’s Cloudresearch to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (46.1% men; 51.4% women; Mage = 42.20; 72.3% White, 12.0% Black, 6.2% Hispanic, 8.8% Asian).
Procedure. Participants were truthfully informed about a real Facebook campaign to advertise popular and inspirational biographical films (“biopics”) and asked to weigh in on which films to include. Participants saw25 candidate films each with a cover art thumbnail and a brief description listing the  protagonist’s name (e.g., Judy Garland, Alan Turing), claim to fame (e.g., Actress, WWII codebreaker), the film’s year of release (e.g., 2019, 2014), and budget (e.g., $10m, $14m); 4 of the25 films (16%) featured a racial minority protagonist. 
Participants selected a portfolio of seven films for the Facebook campaign and  were incentivized for the quality of their decisions. Specifically, we (truthfully) told participants: “To provide extra motivation to take this seriously, we’ll send you a $5 bonus if your list is selected (there will be an eventual vote on all of the lists generated).” 
Participants were then randomly assigned to either (1) the no race feedback or (2) the race feedback condition. In the no race feedback condition, participants received descriptive feedback on the percentage of films that (1) had a budget above $40M, (2) were released after 2010, and (3) were over 2 hours long. In the race feedback condition, participants always received descriptive feedback about the percentage of films they had selected that featured a racial minority protagonist alongside two randomly drawn pieces of feedback from the list of film attributes summarized in the no race feedback condition. After receiving descriptive feedback on their initial film selections, participants selected an eighth and final film for the Facebook campaign from the original set, where their prior selections were highlighted. See Materials Section: Study 3A in the Appendix for complete study materials.
Results
Participants’ initial selections featured racial minority protagonists 16.1% of the time, with balance across conditions (p = .314, see Appendix Table S3). Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regression with robust standard errors to predict whether the eighth and final biopic selected featured a racial minority protagonist, using assignment to the race feedback condition as the primary predictor Participants were significantly more likely to choose a biopic featuring a racial minority protagonist in the race feedback condition (27.10% chose a biopic featuring a racial minority protagonist) than in the no race feedback condition (17.73% chose a biopic featuring a racial minority protagonist; B = 0.094, 95% CI = [0.042, 0.145], t(998) = 3.57, p < .001).The effect of assignment to the race feedback condition on the subsequent selection of a racial minority protagonist was significantly larger than the effects of assignment to receive descriptive feedback about any of the three comparison attributes (all p’s ≤ .009; see Table S3, Models 5-8 for the per-study system-of-equations results). 
Study 3B
In this study, we sought to replicate our key findings from Study 3A about how feedback affects real selection decisions, but this time we provide descriptive feedback about the gender distribution of past selectees. 
Methods
Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/uyn8g/), we recruited 1,000 participants on Cloudresearch to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (51.0% men; 48.3% women; Mage = 43.60; 77.9% White, 9.7% Black, 5.5% Hispanic, 6.4% Asian).
Procedure. The procedure in this study was nearly identical to the procedure described in Study 3A, but we changed the selection set of biopics to include 19 films featuring male protagonists and 6 featuring female protagonists (so 24% of the protagonists were women). Participants also began by selecting an initial portfolio of six films for inclusion in the Facebook advertising campaign instead of seven. The brief description provided of each film did not state the length of the film; instead, it presented information about the film protagonist’s profession (e.g., “A film about George W. Bush. Who was he? 43rd U.S. President.”). 
Just as in the prior study, after making their set of six initial film selections, participants were randomly assigned to either (1) the no gender feedback condition or (2) the gender feedback condition. In the no gender feedback condition, participants were presented with feedback about the percentage of films they had selected that (1) had a budget above $40M, (2) were released after 2010, and (3) included a political leader as the protagonist. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of films they had selected featuring a woman protagonist, in addition to two more pieces of descriptive feedback randomly selected from the three in the no gender feedback condition. Otherwise, the study was identical to Study 3A. See Materials Section: Study 3B in the Appendix for complete study materials.
Results
On average, 17.5% of participants’ initially selected films featured female protagonists, with balance across conditions (p = 0.813; see Appendix Table/Section X). As shown in Figure S2B and in our primary, pre-registered OLS regression (Model 1 of Table S5), participants were significantly more likely to choose a biopic featuring a woman protagonist as their seventh and final film in the gender feedback condition (40.64% chose a biopic with a woman protagonist) than in the no gender feedback condition (20.08% chose a biopic with a woman protagonist; B = 0.206, 95% CI = [0.150, 0.261], t(998) = 7.24, p < .001, see Table S5 Model 1). These results were robust to several alternative specifications, including controlling for participant gender, race, and age, and analyzing our data with logistic regression (see Appendix Table S6 for robustness checks). In addition, as shown in Figure S2B and Table S5 (Models 5-8), and as predicted, the effect of assignment to the gender feedback condition on the likelihood of selecting a 7th film with a woman protagonist was larger than the effect of assignment to receive descriptive feedback about the percentage of initial films selected with a (1) budget above $40M (F(1, 1992) = 65.06, p < .001), (2) political leader protagonist (F(1, 1992) = 57.74, p < .001), or (3) release year after 2010 (F(1, 1992) = 12.44, p < .001) on subsequent selections of a 7th and final biopic with, respectively, a (1) budget above $40M, (2) political leader protagonist, or (3) release year after 2010 (in fact, all other types of feedback had insignificant effects on subsequent film selections).
Discussion
Across two incentivized experiments,  descriptive feedback about the race (Study 3A) or gender (Study 3B) of protagonists featured in previously selected films increased subsequent selections of films featuring racial minorities or women, respectively. One possible explanation for our findings is that the feedback itself signaled that we value racial or gender diversity: after initially choosing films based on personal preferences, participants may have inferred from race or gender feedback that these attributes mattered to the experimenter and attended to these attributes more in subsequent decisions as a result of a “demand effect” (Orne, 1962; Zizzo, 2010). If this alternative explanation were driving our effects, however, we would also expect participants to respond to the “demand effect” inherent in receiving feedback about other attributes of their selected films (e.g., feedback about a film’s budget or year of release), but we found no such patterns. 
However, to further rule out a “demand effect” explanation for our findings, we conducted two supplemental experiments (Studies S2A and S2B, detailed in pages 7-11 in the Appendix). In both studies, we employed a 2x2 design that crossed our original gender feedback manipulation with the addition of a values-based injunctive message (i.e., “The organization planning this event cares deeply about presenting a diversity of speakers in terms of [their experience in CEO roles, their experience as company founders, their background in the technology industry] and their gender.”) to the participant emphasizing the importance of making diverse selections. Study S2A involved hypothetical selections of corporate speakers to join a high-profile panel;Study S2B involved incentivized selections of podcasts to feature in a Facebook ad campaign. In both studies, we replicated our finding from Study 3B: descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees increased the likelihood that participants subsequently selected a woman. However, explicitly highlighting the importance of making diverse selections (via an explicit injunctive norm message) did not significantly increase the selection of women candidates (in S2A: the message produced a regression-estimated 3% increase in the selection of women panelists, B = 0.030, p = .471; in S2B: the message produced a regression-estimated 5% increase in the selection of podcasts with women hosts, B = 0.053, p = .176). Moreover, in neither study did the effect of the explicit injunctive norm message highlighting the importance of diverse selections significantly alter the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees (Study S2A interaction: B = -0.005, p = .941; Study S2B interaction: B = 0.019, p = .748; see Appendix Tables S17-S22 for full results). Together, these findings suggest our results in Study 3 are not the product of an experimenter demand effect. 
Study 4

In Study 4, we tested the mechanism we theorize underlies the relationship between descriptive feedback and subsequent selection decisions: motivation to respond without prejudice. 
We also attempted to rule out the possibility that the “comparison” attributes summarized in descriptive feedback (alongside feedback about the race or gender of past selectees) in our prior studies may have been perceived as less important to participants than the race and gender of candidates. In Study 4B, we selected comparison attributes after pre-testing them for importance, and we ensured that all were rated at least as important as gender or race. See Appendix Study S4 for a complete description of our pre-testing procedure and results.
We examined the effect of feedback about the race of past selectees in Study 4A and feedback about the gender of past selectees in Study 4B. 
Study 4A

Methods
Participants. As pre-registered (https://aspredicted.org/XGG_21R), we recruited 1,000 participants on Amazon’s Cloudresearch to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (47.6% men, 51.5% women; Mage = 42.53; 75.75% White, 9.21% Black, 4.75% Hispanic, 8.83% Asian). 
Procedure. Participants imagined being  tasked with creating a reading list for their local library. They were presented with a 25 (real) authors, each shown with a small photograph and a brief description listing the author’s name (e.g., James Baldwin, Isabel Allende), most notable work (e.g., Go Tell It on the Mountain, The House of the Spirits), and a count of their total published works (e.g., “authored 6 books and several short stories and poems”; “authored 6 books”). Eight of the 25 authors (32%) were racial minorities.
Participants selected an initial portfolio of six authors and were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: (1) the no race feedback condition or (2) the race feedback condition. In the no race feedback condition, participants received summary statistics about the percentage of selected authors who (1) were born in the 1800s, (2) wrote more than 10 books, and/or (3) wrote poetry. In the race feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of authors they had selected who were racial minorities, alongside one or two randomly drawn pieces of feedback from the list above.
After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final author to recommend for their local library’s summer fiction reading list from the original author candidate set, where their prior selections were highlighted. Finally, participants were asked questions to assess their internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice. See Materials Section: Study 4A for full study materials. 
Internal motivation to respond without prejudice. To assess internal motives (e.g., image concerns) in the final author selection, we adapted four items from Plant and Devine’s (1998) internal motivation to respond without prejudice scale (e.g., “Given my personal values and beliefs, an important factor in my selection of the seventh author to add to my list was my desire to promote the success of racial minorities.”; Cronbach’s α = 0.93). Items used a  1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale and, as pre-registered, were separately z-scored and then averaged.
External motivation to respond without prejudice. To assess external motives (e.g., reputational concerns) in the final author selection,  we adapted three items from Plant and Devine’s external motivation to respond without prejudice scale (e.g., “When making my decision about who to select as my seventh author, I considered the social pressures I face to appear to promote racial minorities where they are typically underrepresented.”; Cronbach’s α = 0.90). Items used a 1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale, and as pre-registered, were separately z-scored and then averaged. 
Results
Initial selections featured racial minority authors 21.8% of the time, with balance across conditions (p = .114; see Appendix Table S7). Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regression with robust standard errors predicting whether the seventh and final author a participant selected was a racial minority, with assignment to the race feedback condition as the primary predictor. We again replicated the findings from our previous studies (see Table S7 for complete results): Participants were significantly more likely to choose a racial minority author in the race feedback condition (41.60% chose a racial minority author) than in the no race feedback condition (28.20% chose a racial minority author; B = 0.134, 95% CI = [0.075, 0.193], t(998) = 4.48, p < .001; see Table S7, Model 1). In addition, as predicted, we again found that the effect of providing feedback about the race of initial selectees is significantly larger than the effects of providing descriptive feedback about other attributes of initial selectees (poets: F(1, 3984) = 6.19, p = .013; wrote > 10 books: F(1, 3984) = 5.50, p = .019; born in 1800s: F(1, 3984) = 5.26, p = .022; see Table S7, Models 5-8).
Mediation. Following our pre-registration, we tested each proposed mediator independently using a 10,000-sample bootstrapped mediation model and a Sobel test. The 95% bias-corrected CI for the size of the indirect effect of internal motivation to respond without prejudice excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.06, 95% CI = [0.034, 0.09], suggesting that internal motivation to respond without prejudice helped account for the effect of assignment to the race feedback condition on selecting a racial minority as the final author. Using Imai et al.’s (2010) average causal mediation effect approach, 44.7% of the effect occurred through mediation by the participant’s internal motivation to respond without prejudice. In addition, the 95% bias-corrected CI for the size of the indirect effect of external motivation to respond without prejudice excludes zero (indirect effect = 0.019, 95% CI = [0.005, 0.03]), suggesting that participants’ external motivation to respond without prejudice also helped account for the effect of assignment to the race feedback condition (vs. no race feedback) on selecting a racial minority final author. The average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 14.1% of the effect occurred through external motivation to respond without prejudice. 
We next tested for both mediators in a multiple mediation model (as preregistered), which addressed address potential multicollinearity between these correlated measures (r = 0.72, p < 0.001). Once accounting for the correlation between constructs, internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.08, 95% CI = [0.042, 0.11]), significantly mediated the effect  whereas external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.014, 95% CI = [-0.03, 0.00]) did not.  
Study 4B
In this study, we replicate our key findings from Study 4A, but this time we provide feedback about the gender (rather than race) of the initial selectees. Prior to this study, we conducted a pretest (N = 550) rating 21 candidate author attributes on importance for selecting authors (see Appendix Section S4 for full details); allowing us to select three comparison attributes that did not differ significantly from gender on rated importance.
Given that liberals and conservatives differ not only in their attitudes toward diversity but also in their understanding of what diversity means (Howard, Cervone, & Motyl, 2022), and that recent research suggests diversity initiatives may produce divergent reactions across the political spectrum (Hachem & Dover, 2024), we also examine whether participants’ political ideology moderates the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of past selectees.
Methods
	Participants. As pre-registered (https://osf.io/de3bu/), we recruited 1,000 participants through Prolific Academic to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (48.0% men, 50.7% women, 1.1% non-binary; Mage = 43.0; 75.9% White, 10.8% Black, 4.8% Hispanic, 8.0% Asian).
Procedure. As in Study 4A, a list of 25 (real) authors was presented to each participant to consider for inclusion in a reading list for their local library. Each author was displayed with a photograph, the author’s name (e.g., Kurt Vonnegut), most notable work (e.g., Slaughterhouse-Five), an estimate of their most notable work’s all-time sales and time in print (e.g., 800K copies sold, in print 56 years), their number of works authored (e.g., 14 books, 3 essays), and their genre(s) (e.g., Science Fiction, Satire). Six of the authors on this list (24%) were women.
Following a similar procedure to the one described in Study 4A, participants were randomly assigned to one of two conditions: participants in the no gender feedback condition received summary statistics about the percentage of authors they had selected who (1) wrote works spanning multiple genres, (2) had at least one book with 30 million or more copies sold, and/or (3) had works that remained in continuous print for over 50 years. In the gender feedback condition, participants always received feedback about the percentage of authors they had selected who were women, alongside two randomly drawn pieces of feedback from the list of items in the no gender feedback condition. After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final author to recommend for their local library’s winter fiction reading list from the original candidate set, where their prior selections were highlighted. 
After making all decisions, participants were asked questions to assess their internal (Cronbach’s α = 0.93) and external (Cronbach’s α = 0.89) motivation to respond without prejudice, which were identical to the questions in Study 4A except for word changes made to focus on avoiding gender prejudice rather than racial prejudice. See Materials Section: Study 4B for full study materials. 
Political ideology. To measure participants’ political orientation, we used the 7-point political ideology scale from the American National Election Studies (ANES, 2022). Participants responded to the prompt “When it comes to politics, do you usually think of yourself as...?” on a scale ranging from 1 (Extremely liberal) to 7 (Extremely conservative), with 4 representing Moderate; middle of the road. This measure was centered at 4 (moderate) for analyses examining moderation effects.
Political party affiliation. To assess participants’ political party identification, we adapted the party identification item from the American National Election Studies (ANES, 2022). Participants were asked “Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, a Democrat, or an Independent?” and selected one of three options: Democrat, Republican, or Independent. For regression analyses, party affiliation was dummy coded with Republican as the reference category.
Results 
Initial selections featured women authors 25.3% of the time, with balance across conditions (p = .679; see Appendix Table S9).
Following our pre-registration, we ran an OLS regressions with robust standard errors predicting whether the seventh and final author a participant selected was a woman, with assignment to the gender feedback condition as the primary predictor First, we replicated the primary findings from our previous studies (see Table S9 for complete regression results): participants were significantly more likely to choose a woman author as their final selectee in the gender feedback condition (41.48% chose a woman author) than in the no gender feedback condition (29.54% chose a woman author; B = 0.119, 95% CI = [0.060, 0.178], t(998) = 3.97, p < .001; Table S9, Model 1).
In addition, as theorized, we found that the effect of providing descriptive feedback about the gender of initial selectees is significantly larger than the effect of providing descriptive feedback about whether participants’ initial selectees wrote works spanning multiple genres (F(1, 1992) = 37.92, p < .001), wrote at least one book with 30 million or more copies sold (F(1, 1992) = 11.48, p < .001), or wrote any works that remained in continuous print for over 50 years (F(1, 1992) = 9.01, p = .003; see Table S9, Models 5-8).
Mediation. Following our pre-registration, we tested each proposed mediator independently using a 10,000-sample bootstrapped mediation model and a Sobel test (Imai et al., 2010). The 95% bias-corrected CI for the indirect effect of internal motivation to respond without prejudice excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.064, 95% CI = [0.037, 0.094]), suggesting that internal motivation partially accounted for the effect of assignment to the gender feedback condition on the likelihood of selecting a woman as the final author; the average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 53.9% of the effect occurred through internal motivation. Next, the 95% bias-corrected CI for the indirect effect of external motivation excluded zero (indirect effect = 0.030, 95% CI = [0.014, 0.048]), suggesting that external motivation likewise accounted for the effect; the average causal mediation effect approach suggested that 24.8% of the effect occurred through external motivation. 
We next tested both mediators in a multiple mediation model (these items were highly correlated: r = 0.78, p < .001). The results confirmed that internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.091, 95% CI = [0.052, 0.131]) significantly mediated the effect. When both mediators were included simultaneously, external motivation to respond without prejudice showed a significant negative indirect effect (indirect effect = -0.028, 95% CI = [-0.046, -0.012]).
To test whether political ideology or party affiliation moderated our effects, we added pre-registered interaction terms to our primary model. We found no significant interaction between assignment to the gender feedback condition and political ideology (B = -0.013, 95% CI = [-0.044, 0.018], t(996) = -0.80, p = .424), nor did we find significant interactions between assignment to the gender feedback condition and party affiliation (Democrat interaction: B = 0.019, 95% CI = [-0.125, 0.164], t(994) = 0.26, p = .792; Independent interaction: B = 0.067, 95% CI = [-0.085, 0.220], t(994) = 0.87, p = .387), 
Discussion
In Study 4, we again replicated the effect of descriptive feedback about the race and gender of past selectees increasing the subsequent selection of racial minorities and women. In addition, we found evidence that both internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice mediated this effect for subsequent selections of racial minorities (Study 4A) and women (Study 4B), respectively. When combining the highly correlated measures of internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice in a multiple mediation model, our findings suggest that internal motivation is the dominant mediator in our studies. However, external motivation to respond without prejudice could likely play a more significant role in settings where choices are made publicly. 
In addition, Study 4B established that the effect of gender feedback was not moderated by political ideology nor party affiliation. Finally, it ruled out the possibility that our effects were driven by perceptions of which attributes were considered most important.
Study 5
In all of our studies so far, we examined situations where women or racial minorities were underrepresented in candidate pools, which means that mechanically they would also likely be underrepresented in many respondents’ initial set of selectees. As a result, the descriptive feedback we delivered typically highlighted that historically underrepresented groups had been picked at low rates (in fact, across all studies thus far, 83% of participants who received feedback about the gender or race of past selectees learned that the candidates they had initially selected were less than half women or racial minorities, respectively). In Study 5, we tested how descriptive feedback affects decision makers when it suggests that historically underrepresented groups have recently been picked at high rates. This would not, in theory, activate a motivation to respond without prejudice, since the initial feedback would indicate that historically underrepresented groups were being well-represented. Under such circumstances, we would no longer predict a positive effect of descriptive feedback about past decisions on the subsequent selection of candidates from a historically underrepresented population.
Before testing this prediction experimentally, we examined whether the size of the effect we study differs based on the proportion of women and racial minorities initially selected by re-analyzing data from Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B. Specifically, we tested for an interaction between (1) the proportion of women or racial minorities a participant initially selected (before random assignment to condition) for inclusion in their portfolio and (2) random assignment to receive descriptive feedback about the fraction of women or racial minorities in their original portfolio of selectees. Based on our theorizing that feedback is unlikely to evoke a motivation to respond without prejudice when initial selections of women or racial minorities are high, we would predict a negative interaction between these predictors.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Insert Table 4 about here 
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
In Table 4, Models 1-5, we present five regression models re-analyzing data from Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B, in which we added two new predictors: (1) the proportion of racial minorities or women (depending on the study) in the initially selected candidate set and (2) an interaction between this predictor and our primary predictor: assignment to the race feedback or gender feedback condition (depending on the study). In Model 1, which analyzes data from Study 2 (gender), we found the predicted significant negative interaction between the proportion of women selected initially and the impact of assignment to the gender feedback condition on subsequent selections of women (B = -0.107, 95% CI = [-0.198, -0.015], t(298) = -2.30, p = .022). In Model 2, which analyzes data from Study 3A (race), we found only directional but insignificant evidence of the predicted negative interaction between the proportion of racial minorities selected initially and the impact of assignment to the race feedback condition on subsequent selections of racial minorities (B = -0.019, 95% CI = [-0.070, 0.032], t(996) = -0.73, p = .465). In Model 3, which analyzes data from Study 3B (gender), we found the predicted significant negative interaction between the proportion of women selected initially and the impact of assignment to the gender feedback condition on subsequent selections of women (B = -0.087, 95% CI = [-0.141, -0.034], t(996) = -3.20, p = .001). In Model 4, which analyzed data from Study 4A (race), we found marginally significant evidence of the predicted negative interaction (B = -0.044, 95% CI = [-0.088, 0.001], t(996) = -1.92, p = .055). And in Model 5, which analyzed data from Study 4B (gender), we found a significant negative interaction (B = -0.046, 95% CI = [-0.090, -0.002], t(996) = -2.06, p = .040), as predicted. 	To quantify the overall pattern of interactions across these five studies, we conducted a mini meta-analysis combining the interaction coefficients from Models 1-5 (Goh et al., 2016). Specifically, we pooled the five coefficients representing the interaction between assignment to the gender (Study 2, 3B, and 4B) or race (Study 3A and 4A) feedback condition and the proportion of women or racial minorities initially selected. Using a random-effects model, which weighs each study’s contribution by its standard error, we found a significant negative pooled interaction effect (B = -0.052, 95% CI = [-0.075, -0.028], z = -4.36, p < .001). This suggests that the effect of descriptive feedback on female and racial minority selections is reliably larger when participants have selected a lower initial proportion of women or racial minorities and receive feedback to this effect.
However, because the proportion of women or racial minorities in participants’ initial selections was not randomly assigned (although selections were made before random assignment) and was somewhat restricted in range, we conducted an experiment where we used our standard experimental setup from Studies 2-4 but exogenously varied whether women made up the minority versus the majority of candidates available for selection. We then examined how exogenously manipulating whether people likely select very few versus very many female candidates related to the effect of descriptive feedback about the gender of their past selectees on the gender of their subsequent selectees.
------------------------------------------------------------------
Insert Table 5 and Figure 4 about here 
------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Methods

Participants. As pre-registered (https://aspredicted.org/xt2ct6), we recruited 1,200 participants through Prolific Academic to complete a 3-minute survey for $0.75 (39.3% men, 59.0% women, 1.6% non-binary/other; Mage = 42.7; 70.0% White, 11.2% Black, 9.3% Hispanic, 8.4% Asian).
Procedure. Following a similar procedure to Studies 2–4 participants imagined  planning a major international business conference and selecting a panel of six business leaders (from a list of 25 real leaders in randomized order) to provide insights into the global business landscape.We included each leader’s name (e.g., Jeff Bezos, Mary Barra), title (e.g., Founder, CEO), and company affiliation (e.g., Amazon, General Motors). After making their initial six-person panel, participants were randomly assigned to one of four conditions in a 2 (gender feedback vs. no gender feedback) X 2 (women underrepresented vs. women overrepresented) design. Participants randomly assigned to the women underrepresented conditions made selections from a panelist candidate list including 18 men and 6 women (25% women). In the women overrepresented conditions, participants made selections from a panelist candidate list including 18 women and 6 men (75% women). Participants in the no gender feedback conditions were randomly assigned to receive separate summary statistics about both the percentage of panelists they initially selected who were (1) in the tech industry and (2) company founders. In the gender feedback conditions, participants received feedback about the percentage of panelists they had selected who were women as well as the two summary statistics about past selectees that were provided to participants in the no gender feedback condition. We ensured balance in the fraction of men and women candidates who were in the tech industry and company founders across the women underrepresented and women overrepresented conditions. After receiving feedback, participants selected a seventh and final panelist from the original set, and their prior selections were highlighted.
Motivation to respond without prejudice. As in Study 4, we assessed internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice using seven items adapted from Plant and Devine’s (1998) scale (internal Cronbach’s α = 0.93; external Cronbach’s α = 0.91). Items used a 1 (Strongly disagree) to 7 (Strongly agree) scale and were z-scored and averaged.
Fairness concerns. We measured fairness concerns about gender balance using three items adapted from research on distributive justice (Adams, 1965; Colquitt, 2001), specifically asking participants to rate the extent to which, when deciding on the seventh panelist, they prioritized achieving gender balance, avoided extreme over- or under-representation of men or women, and aimed to ensure that neither men nor women were left out (Cronbach’s α = 0.90). Items used the same 1-7 scale and were z-scored and averaged. See Materials Section: Study 5 in the Appendix for complete study materials.
Results
Participants in all conditions first selected six panelists. In the women overrepresented condition, 60.7% of these initial selectees were women (balance was successfully achieved on this attribute: 59.8% of initial selectees were women in the no gender feedback condition and 61.6% were women in the gender feedback condition, t(599.9) = -1.11, p = .268, 95% CI = [-0.049, 0.014]). In the women underrepresented condition, 21.0% of initial selectees were women (balance was successfully achieved on this attribute: 20.5% of initial selectees were women in the no gender feedback condition and 21.4% were women in the gender feedback condition, t(596) = -0.49, p = .624, 95% CI = [-0.045, 0.027]).
For simplicity, we began by estimating separate OLS regressions (pre-registered as secondary analyses) predicting whether the seventh and final panelist selected was a woman with assignment to the gender feedback condition, among (1) the subset of participants assigned to the women underrepresented condition (see Table 5, Models 1-2) and (2) the subset of participants assigned to the women overrepresented condition (see Table 5, Models 3-4). Replicating our prior studies’ findings, Figure 4 and Table 5 (Model 1) show that when participants were randomly assigned to the women underrepresented condition (and selected panelists from a candidate pool in which women leaders were underrepresented), they were significantly more likely to choose a woman as their seventh and final panelist when assigned to the gender feedback condition (57.5% chose a woman panelist) than to the no gender feedback condition (33.3% chose a woman panelist; B_gender feedback = 0.241, 95% CI [0.164, 0.319], t(596) = 6.09, p < .001). However, as shown in Figure 4 and Table 5 (Model 3), when participants were randomly assigned to the women overrepresented condition, the effect of feedback reversed in direction: participants in the gender feedback condition selected a woman as their seventh and final panelist 66.1% of the time, whereas participants in the no gender feedback condition selected a woman as their final panelist 76.7% of the time (B_gender feedback = -0.106, 95% CI [-0.178, -0.034], t(600) = -2.90, p = .004). Both simple effects were robust to controlling for participant gender, race, and age (see Table 5, Models 2 and 4).
Our primary pre-registered analysis pooled data across all conditions in a single OLS regression with robust standard errors to predict whether the seventh and final panelist a participant selected was a woman. Our primary predictors were: (1) an indicator for assignment to the gender feedback condition, (2) an indicator for assignment to the women overrepresented condition (with women underrepresented as the reference category), and (3) an interaction between the prior two indicators. As shown in Table 5, Model 5, the coefficient on the gender feedback indicator in this regression was positive and significant (B_gender feedback = 0.241, SE = 0.040, p < .001), indicating that when women were underrepresented in the candidate pool, receiving gender feedback increased the likelihood of selecting a woman as the final panelist by 24.1 percentage points. The coefficient on the women overrepresented indicator was also positive and significant (B_women overrepresented = 0.434, SE = 0.037, p < .001), indicating that in the absence of gender feedback, participants were 43.4 percentage points more likely to select a woman when women were overrepresented in the candidate pool compared to when women were underrepresented. Most notably, the interaction between the prior two indicators was negative and significant (B_gender feedback x women overrepresented = -0.348, SE = 0.054, p < .001), indicating that the effect of gender feedback was 34.8 percentage points lower when women were overrepresented than when they were underrepresented. In other words, gender feedback decreased the selection of women by 10.6 percentage points when women were overrepresented (vs. increasing selection of women by 24.1 percentage points when women were underrepresented). These results were robust to controlling for participant gender, race, and age (see Table 5, Model 6).
Finally, we confirmed that not only did the effect of the gender feedback treatment flip across conditions, it was also unequal in magnitude across the women overrepresented and women underrepresented conditions (Wald Test: z = 2.50, p = .012). Specifically, the magnitude of the effect was 56% smaller in magnitude in the women overrepresented condition than in the women underrepresented condition.
Exploratory Mediation Analyses. In analyses that were not pre-registered, we found that in the women underrepresented condition there were three significant mediators of the effect of descriptive feedback on the increased selection of women: internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.103, 95% CI = [0.070, 0.139], p < .001; replicating the results of Study 4), external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = 0.046, 95% CI = [0.025, 0.072], p < .001; replicating the results of Study 4), and fairness concerns (indirect effect = 0.101, 95% CI = [0.067, 0.137], p < .001). Fairness concerns were highly correlated with both measures of motivation to respond without prejudice (r_internal,fairness = .86; r_external,fairness = .68).	In the women overrepresented condition, however, there was only one significant mediator of the effect of descriptive feedback on the increased selection of men: fairness concerns (indirect effect = -0.012, 95% CI [-0.026, -0.002], p = .013) mediated this effect. Neither internal motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.010, 95% CI [-0.024, 0.001], p = .072) nor external motivation to respond without prejudice (indirect effect = -0.003, 95% CI [-0.011, 0.003], p = .409) significantly mediated the decreased selection of women induced by descriptive feedback in the women overrepresented condition (though internal motivation to respond without prejudice was a marginally significant mediator). This is consistent with our theory that these mechanisms are only triggered when feedback suggests that a historically underrepresented group (e.g., women) has plausibly faced prejudice.
Discussion
	This study shows that when women are underrepresented in a candidate pool, descriptive feedback about the prior fraction of women selected increases the likelihood of subsequently selecting a woman, replicating our findings from Studies 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B. However, when women are overrepresented, feedback produces a statistically smaller effect in the opposite direction, decreasing the selection of women. 
	Exploratory mediation analyses suggest that different mechanisms are key drivers of the effects of descriptive feedback on selection decisions after people learn that women were initially underrepresented versus overrepresented in their original pool of picks. Consistent with Study 4 and our theorizing, when women are underrepresented, feedback triggers a motivation to respond without prejudice, which prompts decision makers to select more women. However, when women are overrepresented, general concerns about treating men and women fairly emerge as the main mediator (notably, these concerns arise alongside a motivation to respond without prejudice when women are overrepresented). These fairness concerns drive people to select candidates who reduce gender imbalance.
Benchmarking Study: Descriptive Feedback vs. Quotas to Promote Diversity
	To further contextualize the practical significance of our descriptive feedback intervention, we compared its efficacy against a particularly heavy-handed approach: a quota. Quotas mandate that a certain number or percentage of positions be filled by individuals from underrepresented groups, such as women or racial minorities. Even though quotas are legally prohibited in the United States (see, for example, Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard College 2023), comparing our descriptive feedback intervention’s impact with that of a quota offers a valuable benchmark. Quotas can be thought of as an upper bound of the effects of interventions that could be used to ensure more women (or racial minorities) are placed in positions of power.
Methods
	Using data from our previous studies (Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A, and 4B), we conducted simulations to estimate how a quota requiring at least one woman (or alternatively, one racial minority) in the final selection set would have affected control participants’ decisions. In our experimental paradigm, participants were asked to select six (or seven) individuals from a larger pool of candidates. To simulate what would have happened if we had applied a quota requiring that one woman (or alternatively, one racial minority) be included in each selection set, we identified participants in the control conditions in each study whose initial choices did not include any women (or in studies focused on racial minorities, we identified participants who didn’t select any racial minorities). Among these participants, we next identified those who did not choose a woman as their final selectee (or in studies focused on racial minorities, we identified participants who didn’t select a racial minority as their final selectee). For these participants, we simulated the imposition of a quota by modifying their final selection to be a candidate from the underrepresented group (i.e., we replaced their final selection with a woman or racial minority, thus changing the value of the dependent variable to equal one in cases where a quota rule would have changed their decision). For all other control participants, we retained their original selection decisions. See Appendix Table S13 for an illustration of the process used to create this simulated “quota condition” data. 
Results
The results of this simulation exercise are summarized in Appendix Table S12 (and the complete regressions used to estimate the effect of each simulated quota condition are presented in detail in Appendix Table S14). For women in Study 2 (see Appendix Table S12, Row 1), compared to the control condition, the descriptive feedback intervention increased the likelihood that participants selected biographies featuring female protagonists by 13.2 percentage points (B = 0.132, 95% CI = [0.031, 0.234], p = .011), and the simulated quota also significantly increased selections, by 18.5% (B = 0.185, 95% CI = [0.082, 0.289], p < .001), meaning feedback produced 71.4% of the benefit of a quota. For racial minorities in Study 3A (see Appendix Table S12, Row 2), compared to the control condition, the descriptive feedback intervention increased the likelihood that participants selected films featuring racial minority protagonists by 9.4 percentage points (B = 0.094, 95% CI = [0.042, 0.145], p < .001), and the simulated quota also significantly increased selections, by 17.1% (B = 0.171, 95% CI = [0.118, 0.225], p < .001), meaning feedback produced 54.7% of the benefit of a quota. For women in Study 3B (see Appendix Table S12, Row 3), compared to control condition, the descriptive feedback intervention significantly increased the likelihood of selecting films featuring female protagonists by 20.6 percentage points (B = 0.206, 95% CI = [0.150, 0.261], p < .001), while the simulated quota also significantly increased selections by 25.7% (B = 0.257, 95% CI = [0.201, 0.313], p < .001). This means offering descriptive feedback on the gender of past films’ protagonists yielded 80.0% of the benefit of a gender quota. In Study 4A (see Appendix Table S12, Row 4), which examined racial diversity in author selections, compared to the control condition the descriptive feedback intervention significantly increased the likelihood of selecting authors from racial minority backgrounds by 13.4 percentage points (B = 0.134, 95% CI = [0.075, 0.193], p < .001), while the simulated quota also significantly increased selections by 29.6% (B = 0.296, 95% CI = [0.237, 0.355], p < .001), relative to the control condition, meaning that feedback achieved 45.3% of the effect of a quota. Finally, in Study 4B (see Appendix Table S12, Row 5), which examined gender diversity in author selections, compared to the control condition the descriptive feedback intervention significantly increased the likelihood of selecting female authors by 11.9 percentage points (B = 0.119, 95% CI = [0.060, 0.178], p < .001), while the simulated quota also significantly increased selections by 15.6% (B = 0.156, 95% CI = [0.096, 0.215], p < .001), meaning feedback produced 76.7% of the benefit of a quota.
In summary, these simulations reveal that across our studies, our light-touch descriptive feedback intervention produced 45% to 80% (and 71% of the benefits in our field study) of the increase in selectees’ diversity that would be achieved by taking a heavy-handed (and often illegal) quota-based approach to promoting diversity. These findings underscore the practical value of descriptive feedback as an intervention that can achieve substantial diversity gains while remaining both legally permissible and minimally invasive.
General Discussion
        	Across seven pre-registered experiments, including a framed field study in a real organization, we investigate the impact of providing descriptive feedback about the gender and racial diversity of past candidate selections on evaluators’ future choices. In Studies 1-5 we demonstrate that when women (or racial minorities) are underrepresented in candidate pools, giving participants feedback about the fraction of women (or racial minorities) they initially select increases the likelihood that they will subsequently choose to add a woman (or racial minority) to their portfolio. By contrast, when participants receive descriptive feedback about the fraction of selectees with other domain-relevant attributes that are DEI-irrelevant (e.g., the fraction of Technologists on a panel instead of the fraction of women on that panel), it does not have the same impact on their subsequent selections (i.e., they are less likely to subsequently select a Technologist). In Studies 4A and 4B, we identify people’s motivation to respond without prejudice as a key mechanism underlying the effect of descriptive feedback on people’s subsequent DEI-related selection decisions. We find that both internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice mediates the relationship between receiving descriptive feedback about past selectees and making more gender-or-racially-diverse future candidate selections. 
However, we do find an important moderator of our effect: in settings where feedback highlights that candidates who have historically faced discrimination are overrepresented among selectees, the effect shrinks and reverses, prompting people to strive for parity by adjusting their picks in the opposite direction (see Study 5).
Theoretical and Practical Contributions
Our work makes two primary theoretical contributions. First, we offer new insights about how and when descriptive feedback motivates behavior change. According to Feedback Intervention Theory, feedback is most effective when paired with explicit goals, standards, or explicit injunctive norms that signal a clear gap between current performance and a desired state (Kluger & DeNisi, 1996; Schultz et al., 2007). Purely descriptive feedback is often viewed as insufficient to drive change because it lacks a directive. We show that descriptive feedback can consistently motivate behavior change in the absence of explicit prescriptions. When such feedback targets DEI-relevant attributes of past selections and suggests women or minorities have been overlooked, the feedback itself elicits reputational or self-image concerns – specifically, internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice. In the context of diversity, an explicit goal, target, social norm or injunctive norm does not need to be coupled with feedback to induce a response because an implicit injunctive norm to avoid prejudice has already been internalized by the decision-maker. This suggests that the utility of providing descriptive feedback absent an explicit goal, target or norm lies in its ability to focus attention on past behavior in arenas where individuals already harbor self-image or reputational concerns.
We also contribute to the literature on social norms. Past research demonstrates that people are strongly motivated to conform to the norms of their culture (Cialdini et al., 1990). We show that descriptive feedback alone can activate concerns about existing, implicit injunctive societal norms—specifically norms regarding diversity and against discrimination (Barr et al., 2018)—without the need for an explicit command or “injunctive” message. Thus, we show that descriptive feedback can be a tool for activating greater attention to unspoken and therefore implicit injunctive norms.
Practically, our research offers new insights into how those eager to foster diversity, equity, and inclusion within organizations can do so. We document the benefits of a minimally invasive yet effective intervention: providing purely descriptive feedback about the race (or gender) diversity, respectively, of past selectees shapes future selection decisions, increasing their race (or gender) diversity, respectively. We add to a nascent literature that leverages insights into choice architecture and judgment and decision-making to address a continued lack of diversity in organizational settings (Cervantez & Milkman, 2024; Chang et al., 2020; He et al., 2021; Kristal et al., 2023). Moreover, we show that our light-touch intervention generates 45%-80% of the benefits of imposing heavy-handed (and sometimes illegal) quotas requiring that at least one woman (or racial minority) be selected. We include this quota comparison as a practical benchmark: quotas represent a widely discussed approach to increasing diversity (Dobbin & Kalev, 2016; Leslie, 2019), making them a useful reference point for calibrating the magnitude of our intervention's effects. However, quotas are often illegal (Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard College, 2023) and even when legal, they can trigger backlash that undermines the very goals they aim to achieve (Dobbin & Kalev, 2016). Our findings suggest that providing descriptive feedback about the diversity of those who were offered past opportunities offers a powerful alternative: it achieves a substantial portion of the diversity gains associated with imposing diversity quotas while preserving decision-maker autonomy and avoiding the legal and cultural risks associated with heavier-handed mandates.
Future Directions and Limitations
Our work focuses specifically on the effect of providing feedback about the race and gender composition of a portfolio of past selectees on future selectees. Race and gender are distinctive attributes in that they are often immediately visible, governed by strong normative prohibitions backed by legal frameworks, and carry clear consequences for both reputation and self-image (Apfelbaum et al., 2008; Crandall & Eshleman, 2003; Plant & Devine, 1998; Civil Rights Act of 1964). Consequently, our findings may not fully generalize to other attributes that signal a person can increase an organization’s diversity, such as their disability status, religious beliefs or sexuality, unless those attributes are made similarly visible. However, our theorizing suggests that descriptive feedback should influence behavior in any domain where the attributes it summarizes relate to similar implicit injunctive norms. Future research on this would be valuable.
While our large sample sizes, diverse stimuli, and pre-registered experiments have many strengths, our research also has several important limitations. First, most of our studies rely on a fairly consistent paradigm. However, we systematically varied several design features across studies, including organizational context (e.g., whether participants were selecting NPR guests, books to be displayed at a library or on campus, or leaders to speak at a large conference), the base rates of underrepresentation in candidate pools, and outcomes measured (the selection of a single woman/racial minority vs. the proportion of women selected in a set). In most organizational settings, selection decisions and feedback will be more spread out over time and candidate pools will be less constrained than in our studies. For example, one candidate might be hired per quarter, and feedback might be provided at the end of the calendar year. Future research confirming that the effect we’ve documented here still arises when people face unconstrained candidate pools and extended decision and feedback timelines would be valuable. While it is possible that an extended decision timeline would decrease the size of feedback effects because feedback can become less salient over time (Tiefenbeck et al., 2018), the effect could also be magnified. Given the strength of the reputational and self-image concerns involved in the types of decisions we study, having more time to deliberate may provide a greater opportunity for evaluators to actively regulate their decisions and implement even more substantial corrections (Fazio, 1990; Plant & Devine, 2009). Additionally, while Study 5 demonstrates that feedback produces different effects depending on whether women are underrepresented or overrepresented, future research could explore the precise threshold at which feedback shifts from triggering motivation to respond without prejudice to triggering fairness concerns, though this threshold is likely context dependent.
It is also worth noting that our experimental paradigms delivered descriptive feedback to evaluators privately. In Study 4, we found that the primary driver of the effect of feedback was to trigger internal motivation to respond without prejudice, which may be because the delivery of feedback was private. However, if feedback were instead delivered publicly in an organization, we would predict that external motivation to respond without prejudice could become a greater propellant for changes in behavior (Leary & Kowalski, 1990; Lerner & Tetlock, 1999). By exploring only the effect of descriptive feedback delivered in private, we likely provide a conservative test of our intervention’s impact, dampening a potential additional mechanism that could enhance its impact (i.e., external motivation to reduce prejudice). Future work exploring the magnitude of behavior change that arises when the type of descriptive feedback we gave in our studies is provided publicly would be valuable. Such research could more definitively disentangle internal versus external motivation by systematically manipulating the private versus public nature of choices and feedback.
Relatedly, future research could investigate whether self-tabulating descriptive summary statistics about past decisions (as opposed to receiving this information from a third party) would generate similar effects. In this scenario, evaluators would hold themselves accountable (Lerner & Tetlock, 1999). We theorize that self-generated tabulations of how many women or racial minorities a decision maker has selected in the past would still motivate behavior change by activating internal self-image concerns. That is, this should produce an internal motivation to respond without prejudice driven by a person’s desire to view themself as unbiased. But it might be less effective than descriptive feedback provided by a third party, which leverages the additional pressure of external reputational consequences. Testing how self-tabulated versus other-tabulated summary statistics affect behavior would help further disentangle the specific roles of private self-regulation versus public impression management in driving diversity-related choices.
Finally, across all of the studies presented in this paper, descriptive feedback was delivered by reporting the percentage of a person’s selectees who hailed from a given underrepresented group (i.e., the % of picks who were women in Studies 1, 2, 3B, 4B and 5; the % of picks who were underrepresented racial minorities in Studies 3A and 4A). An interesting question for future research is whether the effects of descriptive feedback might differ if instead, descriptive feedback was delivered by reporting the percentage of a person’s selectees who hailed from an overrepresented group (e.g., the % of picks who were men) or by listing that summary statistic side-by-side with the percentage of selectees from an underrepresented group.  It is possible that these different ways of describing the same information could affect people’s perception of its meaning (Sher & McKenzie, 2006), altering the extent to which they perceive their past behavior as potentially prejudicial and thus the impact of descriptive feedback. 
Conclusion
Taken together, our research sheds new light on how and why providing descriptive feedback about the race or gender diversity of past selectees can influence subsequent selection decisions to prioritize racial minorities or women, respectively. We show that when women or racial minorities have been underrepresented, descriptive feedback revealing this triggers a motivation to respond without prejudice. This in turn drives decision makers to subsequently select candidates who have been underrepresented in the past at a higher rate. We demonstrate the robustness of this effect across a wide range of experiments including scenario studies, incentive-compatible online experiments, and a framed field experiment. Taken together, our findings suggest that in organizations where the underrepresentation of women and racial minorities remains a challenge, providing descriptive feedback about past selection decisions may be useful. We show that it is an effective strategy for drawing attention to underrepresentation and increasing the race and gender diversity of those subsequently selected for valued opportunities.
References
Abrahamse, W., Steg, L., Vlek, C., & Rothengatter, T. (2005). A review of intervention studies aimed at household energy conservation. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 25(3), 273–291. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvp.2005.08.002
Adams, J. S. (1965). Inequity in social exchange. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.), Advances in experimental social psychology (Vol. 2, pp. 267–299). Academic Press. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2601(08)60108-2
Allcott, H. (2011). Social norms and energy conservation. Journal of Public Economics, 95(9–10), 1082–1095. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpubeco.2011.03.003
Álvarez-Benjumea, A. (2023). Uncovering hidden opinions: Social norms and the expression of xenophobic attitudes. European Sociological Review, 39(3), 449–463.https://doi.org/10.1093/esr/jcac056
American National Election Studies. (2022). ANES 2022 Pilot Study [Data set]. https://electionstudies.org/data-center/2022-pilot-study/
Angrist, J. D., & Pischke, J.-S. (2009). Mostly harmless econometrics: An empiricist’s companion. Princeton University Press. https://doi.org/10.1515/9781400829828 
Apfelbaum, E. P., Sommers, S. R., & Norton, M. I. (2008). Seeing race and seeming racist? Evaluating strategic colorblindness in social interaction. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 95(4), 918–932. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0011990
Bandura, A., & Cervone, D. (1983). Self-evaluative and self-efficacy mechanisms governing the motivational effects of goal systems. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 45(5), 1017–1028. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.45.5.1017
Barr, A., Lane, T., & Nosenzo, D. (2018). On the social inappropriateness of discrimination. Journal of Public Economics, 164, 112–130.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpubeco.2018.06.004
BBC. (2021). 50:50 The Equality Project: Impact Report 2021. https://www.bbc.com/5050/
Becker, L. J. (1978). Joint effect of feedback and goal setting on performance: A field study of residential energy conservation. Journal of Applied Psychology, 63(4), 428–433. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.63.4.428
Bicchieri, C., & Xiao, E. (2009). Do the right thing: But only if others do so. Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, 22(2), 191–208. https://doi.org/10.1002/bdm.621
Bhanot, S. P. (2021). Isolating the effect of injunctive norms on conservation behavior: New evidence from a field experiment in California. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 163, 30–42. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.obhdp.2018.11.002
Bohnet, I., van Geen, A., & Bazerman, M. (2016). When performance trumps gender bias: Joint vs. separate evaluation. Management Science, 62(5), 1225–1234. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2015.2186
Bosson, J. K., Parrott, D. J., Swan, S. C., Kuchynka, S. L., & Schramm, A. T. (2015). A dangerous boomerang: Injunctive norms, hostile sexist attitudes, and male-to-female sexual aggression. Aggressive Behavior, 41(6), 580–593. https://doi.org/10.1002/ab.21597
Bravata, D. M., Smith-Spangler, C., Sundaram, V., Gienger, A. L., Lin, N., Lewis, R., Stave, C. D., Olkin, I., & Sirard, J. R. (2007). Using pedometers to increase physical activity and improve health: A systematic review. JAMA, 298(19), 2296–2304. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.298.19.2296
Cervantez, J. A., & Milkman, K. L. (2024). Can nudges be leveraged to enhance diversity in organizations? A systematic review. Current Opinion in Psychology, 60, 101874. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.copsyc.2024.101874 
Chang, E. H., Kirgios, E. L., Rai, A., & Milkman, K. L. (2020). The isolated choice effect and its implications for gender diversity in organizations. Management Science, 66(6), 2752–2761. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2019.3533
Cialdini, R. B., Demaine, L. J., Sagarin, B. J., Barrett, D. W., Rhoads, K., & Winter, P. L. (2006). Managing social norms for persuasive impact. Social Influence, 1(1), 3–15. https://doi.org/10.1080/15534510500181459
Cialdini, R. B., Reno, R. R., & Kallgren, C. A. (1990). A focus theory of normative conduct: Recycling the concept of norms to reduce littering in public places. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 58(6), 1015–1026. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.58.6.1015
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241 (1964). https://doi.org/10.1093/acref/9780195301731.013.33785 
Cohen, J., Cohen, P., West, S. G., & Aiken, L. S. (2015). Applied multiple regression/correlation analysis for the behavioral sciences (3rd ed.). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203774441
Colquitt, J. A. (2001). On the dimensionality of organizational justice: A construct validation of a measure. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(3), 386–400. https://doi.org/10.1037/0021-9010.86.3.386
Council Directive 2000/43/EC of 29 June 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. Official Journal of the European Communities, L 180, 22–26. http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/2000/43/oj 
Crandall, C. S., & Eshleman, A. (2003). A justification-suppression model of the expression and experience of prejudice. Psychological Bulletin, 129(3), 414–446. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.129.3.414 
Dobbin, F., & Kalev, A. (2016). Why diversity programs fail. Harvard Business Review, 94(7), 52–60.
Dovidio, J. F., & Gaertner, S. L. (2004). Aversive racism. In M. P. Zanna (Ed.), Advances in experimental social psychology (Vol. 36, pp. 1–52). Academic Press. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2601(04)36001-6
Ellis, N. T. (2025, February 8). DEI programs benefit many groups, not just Black and brown communities. CNN. https://www.cnn.com/2025/02/08/us/dei-programs-diversity-list/index.html
Employment Equity Act 55 of 1998 (South Africa). 
Equality Act 2010, c. 15 (United Kingdom).
Fazio, R. H. (1990). Multiple processes by which attitudes guide behavior: The MODE model as an integrative framework. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, 23, 75–109. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2601(08)60318-4
Field, E., Pande, R., Rigol, N., Schaner, S., & Troyer Moore, C. (2023). On her own account: How strengthening women’s financial control impacts labor supply and gender norms. American Economic Review. https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20200705
Folger, R. & Cropanzano, R. (1998). Organizational justice and human resource management. Sage Publications. https://doi.org/10.4135/9781452225777 
Fu, A. (2021, August 12). New tool allows NPR to track source diversity in real time. Poynter. https://www.poynter.org/reporting-editing/2021/new-tool-allows-npr-to-track-source-diversity-in-real-time/
Goh, J. X., Hall, J. A., & Rosenthal, R. (2016). Mini meta-analysis of your own studies: Some arguments on why and a primer on how. Social and Personality Psychology Compass, 10(10), 535–549. https://doi.org/10.1111/spc3.12267
Goldman, A. H. (2015). Justice and reverse discrimination. Princeton University Press. https://doi.org/10.1515/9781400868605 
Gomila, R. (2021). Logistic or linear? Estimating causal effects of experimental treatments on binary outcomes using regression analysis. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 150(4), 700–709. https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000920
Hachem, Z. A., & Dover, T. L. (2024). The presence of diversity initiatives leads to increased pro-White hiring decisions among conservatives. Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 153(8), 2100–2126. https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0001614
Harrison, G. W., & List, J. A. (2004). Field experiments. Journal of Economic Literature, 42(4), 1009–1055. https://doi.org/10.1257/0022051043004577
He, J. C., Kang, S. K., & Lacetera, N. (2021). Opt-out choice framing attenuates gender differences in the decision to compete in the laboratory and in the field. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 118(42), https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2108337118.
Heaton, R. (2025, April 14). What companies are rolling back DEI policies in 2025? TechTarget. https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/feature/What-companies-are-rolling-back-DEI-policies
Howard, K. A., Cervone, D., & Motyl, M. (2022). On the varieties of diversity: Ideological variations in attitudes toward, and understandings of diversity. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 48(7), 1039–1053. https://doi.org/10.1177/01461672211028141
Hsieh, C. T., Hurst, E., Jones, C. I., & Klenow, P. J. (2019). The allocation of talent and us economic growth. Econometrica, 87(5), 1439-1474.https://doi.org/10.3982/ECTA11427
Imai, K., Keele, L., & Tingley, D. (2010). A general approach to causal mediation analysis. Psychological Methods, 15(4), 309–334. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0020761
Jehn, K. A., Northcraft, G. B., & Neale, M. A. (1999). Why differences make a difference: A field study of diversity, conflict and performance in workgroups. Administrative Science Quarterly, 44(4), 741–763. https://doi.org/10.2307/2667054
Karlin, B., Zinger, J. F., & Ford, R. (2015). The effects of feedback on energy conservation: A meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 141(6), 1205–1227. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0039650
Kidwai, A. (2025, April 9). Nearly half of companies surveyed say they will maintain DEI effort in 2025. Newsweek. https://www.newsweek.com/diversity-equity-inclusion-dei-efforts-company-corporate-trends-2025-2042922
Kirgios, E. L., Rai, A., Chang, E. H., & Milkman, K. L. (2022). When seeking help, women and racial/ethnic minorities benefit from explicitly stating their identity. Nature Human Behaviour, 6(3), 383–391.https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-021-01253-y
Kirkland, R., & Bohnet, I. (2017, April 6). Focusing on what works for workplace diversity. McKinsey & Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/gender-equality/focusing-on-what-works-for-workplace-diversity
Kluger, A. N., & DeNisi, A. S. (1996). The effects of feedback interventions on performance: A historical review, a meta-analysis, and a preliminary feedback intervention theory. Psychological Bulletin, 119(2), 254–284. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.119.2.254
Kluger, A. N., & DeNisi, A. S. (1998). Feedback interventions: Toward the understanding of a double-edged sword. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 7(3), 67–72. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-8721.ep10772989
Kristal, A. S., Nicks, L., Gloor, J. L., & Hauser, O. P. (2023). Reducing discrimination against job seekers with and without employment gaps. Nature Human Behaviour, 7(2), 211-218. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-022-01485-6 
Larimer, M. E., Graupensperger, S., Lewis, M. A., Cronce, J. M., Kilmer, J. R., Atkins, D. C., Lee, C. M., & Neighbors, C. (2023). Injunctive and descriptive normative feedback for college drinking prevention: Is the whole greater than the sum of its parts? Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, 37(3), 447–461. https://doi.org/10.1037/adb0000893 
Latham, G. P., & Locke, E. A. (1991). Self-regulation through goal setting. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 50(2), 212–247. https://doi.org/10.1016/0749-5978(91)90021-K
Leary, M. R., & Kowalski, R. M. (1990). Impression management: A literature review and two-component model. Psychological Bulletin, 107(1), 34–47. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.107.1.34
Lerner, J. S., & Tetlock, P. E. (1999). Accounting for the effects of accountability. Psychological Bulletin, 125(2), 255–275. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.125.2.255
Leslie, L. M. (2019). Diversity initiative effectiveness: A typological theory of unintended consequences. Academy of Management Review, 44(3), 538–563. https://doi.org/10.5465/amr.2017.0087
Locke, E. A., & Latham, G. P. (2002). Building a practically useful theory of goal setting and task motivation: A 35-year odyssey. American Psychologist, 57(9), 705–717. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.57.9.705
Minkin, R. (2024, November 19). Views of DEI have become slightly more negative among U.S. workers. Pew Research Center. https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2024/11/19/views-of-dei-have-become-slightly-more-negative-among-us-workers/
Orne, M. T. (1962). On the social psychology of the psychological experiment: With particular reference to demand characteristics and their implications. American Psychologist, 17, 776–783. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0043424
Paluck, E. L. (2009). Reducing intergroup prejudice and conflict using the media: A field experiment in Rwanda. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 96(3), 574–587. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0011989
Plant, E. A., & Devine, P. G. (1998). Internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 75(3), 811–832. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.75.3.811
Plant, E. A., & Devine, P. G. (2009). The active control of prejudice: Unpacking the intentions guiding control efforts. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 96(3), 640–652. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0012960
Porter, C., & Serra, D. (2020). Gender differences in the choice of major: The importance of female role models. American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, 12(3), 226–254. https://doi.org/10.1257/app.20180426
Preston, M. C., & Carton, A. M. (2024). Echoes from the past: The impact of racial transference on leader selection during succession. Academy of Management Journal, 67(2), 331–358. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2021.1031
Rai, A., Chang, E. H., Kirgios, E. L., & Milkman, K. L. (2024). Group Size and Its Impact on Diversity-Related Perceptions and Hiring Decisions in Homogeneous Groups. Organization Science, 35(6), 1990-2015. https://doi.org/10.1287/orsc.2020.14705 
Richard, O. C. (2000). Racial diversity, business strategy, and firm performance: A resource-based view. Academy of Management Journal, 43(2), 164–177. https://doi.org/10.5465/1556374
Sackett, P. R., & Lievens, F. (2008). Personnel selection. Annual Review of Psychology, 59, 419–450. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.psych.59.103006.093716
Salesforce. (2020). Salesforce equality update. https://www.salesforce.com/news/stories/our-2020-annual-equality-update/ 
Society for Human Resource Management. (2022, October 25). SHRM and Boston College study reveals 64 percent of organizations say DE&I is important yet 62 percent have allocated little to no resources to DE&I [Press release]. https://www.shrm.org/about-shrm/press-room/press-releases/pages/shrm-and-boston-college-study-reveals-63-percent-of-organizations-say-dei-is-important-yet-63-percent-have-allocated-litt.aspx
Samdal, G. B., Eide, G. E., Barth, T., Williams, G., & Meland, E. (2017). Effective behaviour change techniques for physical activity and healthy eating in overweight and obese adults: Systematic review and meta-regression analyses. International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, 14, Article 42. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12966-017-0494-y
Schembre, S. M., Liao, Y., O’Connor, S. G., Hingle, M. D., Shen, S.-E., Hamann, A. K., ... & Dunton, G. F. (2018). Just-in-time feedback in diet and physical activity interventions: Systematic review and practical design considerations. Journal of Medical Internet Research, 20(3), e87. https://doi.org/10.2196/jmir.8701
Schultz, P. W., Nolan, J. M., Cialdini, R. B., Goldstein, N. J., & Griskevicius, V. (2007). The constructive, destructive, and reconstructive power of social norms. Psychological Science, 18(5), 429–434. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9280.2007.01917.x
Shilts, M. K., Horowitz, M., & Townsend, M. S. (2004). Goal setting as a strategy for dietary and physical activity behavior change: A review of the literature. American Journal of Health Promotion, 19(2), 81–93. https://doi.org/10.4278/0890-1171-19.2.81
Sher, S., & McKenzie, C. R. M. (2006). Information leakage from logically equivalent frames. Cognition, 101(3), 467–494. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2005.11.001
Sidanius, J., & Pratto, F. (2001). Social dominance: An intergroup theory of social hierarchy and oppression. Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9781139175043
Simonson, I. (1990). The effect of purchase quantity and timing on variety-seeking behavior. Journal of Marketing Research, 27(2), 150–162. https://doi.org/10.1177/002224379002700203
Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President & Fellows of Harvard College, 600 U.S. 181 (2023).
Tate, D. F., Wing, R. R., & Winett, R. A. (2001). Using Internet technology to deliver a behavioral weight loss program. JAMA, 285(9), 1172–1177. https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.285.9.1172
Tiefenbeck, V., Goette, L., Degen, K., Tasic, V., Fleisch, E., Lalive, R., & Staake, T. (2018). Overcoming salience bias: How real-time feedback fosters resource conservation. Management Science, 64(3), 1458–1476. https://doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.2016.2646
Zellner, A. (1962). An efficient method of estimating seemingly unrelated regressions and tests for aggregation bias. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 57(298), 348–368. https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.1962.10480664
Zizzo, D. J. (2010). Experimenter demand effects in economic experiments. Experimental Economics, 13(1), 75–98. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10683-009-9230-z


Table 1. Summary of the Key Features and Results from All Experiments in This Paper
Overview of Experiments |  |  | 
Study / (N) | Selection Decision / (Real Choice or Hypothetical)  | Feedback Provided on Initial Selections / (bolded items’ inclusion was randomized) | Key Findings
Study 1:Online Experiment / (N=1,000) | Experts to Feature in NPR Stories / (Hypothetical) | % of NPR Experts Who… / Were Women / Were Under 50 Years Old / Were Based on the West Coast  / Worked at a University | Feedback about the % of women selected previously increased future selections of women. / Feedback about other expert attributes had smaller effects on choice.
Study 2: University Campus Study / (N=302) | Biographical Books to Feature in a Public Display on a University Campus / (Real Choice) | % of Biographies That… / Featured a Woman / Were Over 500 Pages Long / Were Written in the Past 25 Years / Featured an Entertainer | Prior results replicate in a field context with in-person participants
 |  |  | 
Study 3A: Incentive Compatible Online Experiment / (N=1,000) | Biographical Films to Feature in a Facebook Ad Campaign / (Real Choice) | % of Films That Were… / About a Racial Minority Protagonist / Made on a Budget of $40M / Released after 2010 / Over Two Hours Long | Feedback about the % of racial minority protagonists selected previously increased future selections of minorities. / Feedback about other film attributes had smaller effects on choice.
Study 3B: Incentive Compatible Online Experiment / (N=1,000) |  | % of Films That Were… / About a Woman Protagonist / Made on a Budget of $40M / Released after 2010 / About a Political Leader | Study 3A results replicated with gender as the focal feedback variable.
Study 4A: Online Experiment / (N=1,000) | Authors to Feature in a Library Display / (Hypothetical) | % of Authors Who… / Were Racial Minorities / Were Poets / Wrote More than 10 books / Were Born in the 1800s | Prior results replicated with new stimuli. / The effect we study is mediated by internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice.
Study 4B: Online Experiment / (N=1,000) |  | % of Authors Who… / Were Women / Wrote Books, Poems or Essays Spanning Multiple Genres. / Wrote at least One Book With 30M+ Copies Sold / Wrote at least One Book that Remained in Continuous Print for Over 50 Years | Prior results replicated with new stimuli / The effect we study is mediated by internal and external motivation to respond without prejudice. / The effect we study is not moderated by political orientation or political party.
 |  |  | 
Study 5: Online Experiment / (N=1,200) | Panelists to Include on a Hypothetical International Business Panel (Hypothetical) | % of Panelists Who Were… / Women / in the Tech Industry / Founders | Study 3B and 4B results were replicated in a new decision context. / The effect of feedback about the % of women selected previously was moderated by the fraction of women in the candidate pool. When women were underrepresented among candidates, gender feedback increased the selection of women; when women were overrepresented, the effect was significantly smaller in magnitude and reversed direction (decreasing selection of women) and was driven by fairness concerns rather than concerns about prejudice.
Notes: Sample sizes are reported after dropping participants who failed attention checks, as pre-registered. 


Table 2. Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) Regressions Predicting Attributes of the Final Three Experts to Feature on NPR Selected in Study 1 as a Function of the Pieces of Feedback Participants Were Randomly Assigned to Receive on Their Initially Selected Set of 10 Experts

 | Independent Regression Equations |  |  |  |  | Simultaneous System of Equations |  |  | 
Dependent Variable: % of the Final Experts Selected Who… | Were  / Women | Were Under the Age of 50 | Were Based on the West Coast of the U.S. | Worked at a University |  | Were  / Women | Were Under the Age of 50 | Were Based on the West Coast of the U.S. | Worked at a University
  | Model 1 | Model 2 | Model 3 | Model 4 |  | Model 5 | Model 6 | Model 7 | Model 8
Indicator for Whether Feedback                     / was Provided on % of Original                      / Experts Who Were... |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
Women | 0.125*** |  |  |  |  | 0.234*** | 0.041** | 0.041*** | 0.026+
 | (0.017) |  |  |  |  | (0.015) | (0.011) | (0.013) | (0.014)
Under 50 Years Old |  | 0.026 |  |  |  | 0.119** | 0.072*** | 0.073*** | 0.083***
 |  | (0.020) |  |  |  | (0.019) | (0.015) | (0.017) | (0.017)
Based on the West Coast of the U.S. |  |  | 0.045* |  |  | 0.116*** | 0.061*** | 0.107*** | 0.074***
 |  |  | (0.021) |  |  | (0.019) | (0.015) | (0.016) | (0.017)
Working at a University |  |  |  | 0.064*** |  | 0.101*** | 0.051*** | 0.099** | 0.107***
 |  |  |  | (0.018) |  | (0.017) | (0.013) | (0.043) | (0.015)
Observations | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000 |   | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000
R-Squared | 0.054 | 0.002 | 0.004 | 0.012 |   | 0.706 | 0.421 | 0.531 | 0.474

Notes: This table reports the results of eight ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions that predict whether the proportion of experts a participant selected in Study 1 after receiving feedback on prior selections had a given attribute (e.g., were under 50 years old). Model 1 predicts the proportion of experts selected who were women with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original ten experts selected who were women. Model 2 predicts the proportion of experts under 50 selected with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original experts selected who were under 50 years old. Model 3 predicts the proportion of experts based on the West Coast of the U.S. selected with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original experts selected who were based on the West Coast of the U.S. Model 4 predicts the proportion of experts selected who worked at a university with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original experts selected who worked at a university. Models 5-8 were used to construct a simultaneous system of equations. All of these models include the following indicators as predictors: indicators for receiving feedback on the % of the original experts selected who (1) were women, (2) were under 50 years old, (3) were based on the West Coast of the U.S., and (4) worked at a university. Model 5 predicts the proportion of women selected. Model 6 predicts the proportion of experts under 50 selected. Model 7 predicts the proportion of experts based on the West Coast selected. Model 8 predicts the proportion of experts working at a university selected. Models 5-8 had the constant suppressed to prevent collinearity. Standard errors reported in parentheses and are clustered by participant in Models 5-8.  +p<0.1;*p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.
Table 3. Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) Regressions Predicting Attributes of the Final Biography Selected in Study 2 as a Function of the Pieces of Feedback Participants Were Randomly Assigned to Receive on Their Initially Selected Set of Six Biographies

Dependent Variable: The Final Biography Selected was… | About a Woman | Over 500Pages | Written in the Past 25 Years | About an Entertainer | 
  | Model 1 | Model 2 | Model 3 | Model 4 | 
Indicator for Whether Feedback was Provided on % of Original Biographies That Were… |  |  |  |  | 
About a Woman | 0.132* |  |  |  | 
 | (0.052) |  |  |  | 
Over 500 Pages |  | 0.013 |  |  | 
 |  | (0.054) |  |  | 
Written in the Past 25 Years |  |  | 0.055 |  | 
 |  |   | (0.068) |  | 
About an Entertainer |  |  |  | 0.056 | 
 |   |   |   | (0.087) |  
Observations | 302 | 302 | 302 | 302 | 
R-Squared | 0.022 | 0.001 | 0.001 | 0.001 |  

Notes: This table reports the results of four ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions that predict whether the final biography a participant selected in Study 2 had a given feature (e.g., Was the biography over 500 pages? Was the biography about an entertainer?). Model 1 predicts the selection of a final biography that was about a woman with an indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six biographies selected that were about women. Model 2 predicts the selection of a final biography that was over 500 pages with an indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six biographies selected that were over 500 pages. Model 3 predicts the selection of a final biography that was written in the past 25 years with an indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six biographies selected that were written in the past 25 years. Model 4 predicts the selection of a final biography that featured an entertainer with an indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six biographies selected that were about an entertainer. Standard errors reported in parentheses are estimated robustly using HC3. +p<0.1; *p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.


Table 4. Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) Regressions Predicting Whether the Final Selectee in Studies 2, 3A, 3B, 4A and 4B Was a Woman (Studies 2, 3B and 4B) or a Racial Minority (Studies 3A and 4A) as a Function of: (1) the Proportion of Initial Selectees Who Were Women (in Studies 2, 3B and 4B) or Racial Minorities (in Studies 3B and 4B), (2) Assignment to the Feedback Treatment, and (3) the Interaction Between (1) and (2)
 |  |  |  |  | 
Dependent Variable: The Final Selection in the Choice Set Was... |  / A Biography About a Woman(Study 2) |  / A Film Featuring a Racial Minority Protagonist(Study 3A) |  / A Film Featuring a Woman Protagonist(Study 3B) |  / A Book by a Racial Minority Author(Study 4A) |  / A Book by a Woman Author(Study 4B)
 |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |  |  |  |   |   | 
 | Model 1 | Model 2 | Model 3 | Model 4 | Model 5 | 
Indicator for Whether Feedback was Provided on the % of Initial Selectees Who Were… |  |  |  |  |  | 
Women | 0.291*** / (0.084) |  | 0.297*** / (0.041) |  | 0.188*** / (0.047) | 
 |  |  |  |  |  | 
Racial Minorities |  | 0.110* / (0.046) |  | 0.188***(0.041) |  | 
 |  |  |  |  |  | 
% of Initial Selectees Who Were… |  |  |  |  |  | 
Women | 0.061 / (0.034) |  | -0.002 / (0.018) |  | -0.010 / (0.016) | 
 |  |  |  |  |  | 
Racial Minorities |  | -0.09*** / (0.017) |  | 0.043** |  | 
 |  |  |  | (0.016) |  | 
 (Indicator for Whether Feedback was Provided on the % of Initial Selectees Who Were Women) x (% of Initial Selectees Who Were Women) |  |  |  |  |  | 
 | -0.107* / (0.046) |  | -0.087** / (0.027) |  | -0.046* / (0.022) | 
 (Indicator for Whether Feedback was Provided on the % of Initial Selectees Who Were Racial Minorities) x (% of Initial Selectees Who Were Racial Minorities) |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |   |  -0.019 / (0.026) |  | -0.044(0.023) |  | 
Observations | 302 | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000 | 1,000 | 
R-Squared | 0.039 | 0.055 | 0.066 | 0.023 | 0.017 | 

Notes: This table reports the results of four ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions that predict whether the final biography (Model 1), film (Models 2-3) or book (Models 4-5) a participant selected featured a woman (Model 1), a woman protagonist (Model 2), featured a racial minority protagonist (Model 3), was written by a woman author (Model 4), or was written by a racial minority author (Model 5). Model 1 analyzes data from Study 2 to predict the selection of a final biography about a woman with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original six selected biographies that were about a woman, a continuous measure of the number of biographies about women selected initially, and an interaction between these two terms. Model 2 analyzes data from Study 3A to predict the selection of a final film featuring a racial minority protagonist with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original seven selected films that were about racial minority protagonists, a continuous measure of the number of films featuring racial minority protagonists selected initially, and an interaction between these two terms. Model 3 analyzes data from Study 3B to predict the selection of a final film featuring a woman protagonist with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original six selected films that were about women protagonists, a continuous measure of the number of films featuring women selected initially, and an interaction between these two terms. Model 4 analyzes data from Study 4A to predict the selection of a final book by a racial minority author with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original six selected books that were by racial minority authors, a continuous measure of the number of books initially selected that were by racial minority authors, and an interaction between these two terms. Model 5 analyzes data from Study 4B to predict the selection of a final book by a woman author with an indicator for receiving feedback on the % of the original six selected books that were by women authors, a continuous measure of the number of books initially selected that were by women authors, and an interaction between these two terms. Standard errors reported in parentheses are estimated robustly using HC3. +p<0.1;*p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.
Table 5. Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) Regressions Predicting the Effect of Gender Feedback in Study 5 as a Function of Whether Participants Were Randomly Assigned to (1) Receive Feedback on the Fraction of Their Originally Selected Set of Panelists Who Were Women and (2) Choose from a Panelist Candidate Pool in Which Women Were Overrepresented (vs. Underrepresented)

Dependent Variable: The Final Panelist Selected was a Woman | Participants Randomly Assigned to See Women Underrepresented in the Candidate Set |  |  | Participants Randomly Assigned to See Women Overrepresented in the Candidate Set |  |  | Full Participant Sample | 
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
  | Model 1 | Model 2 |   | Model 3 | Model 4 |   | Model 5 | Model 6
Feedback was Provided on the % of Panelists Who Were Women | 0.241*** | 0.236*** |  | -0.106** | -0.107** |  | 0.241*** | 0.238***
 | (0.040) | (0.068) |  | (0.037) | (0.037) |  | (0.040) | (0.040)
Women Were Overrepresented in the Candidate Set |  |  |  |  |  |  | 0.434*** | 0.435***
 |  |  |  |  |  |  | (0.037) | (0.037)
(Feedback was Provided on the % of / Panelists Who Were Women) x (Women Overrepresented) |  |  |  |  |  |  | -0.348*** | -0.346***
 |  |  |  |  |  |  | (0.054) | (0.054)
 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 
Controls | No | Yes |   | No | Yes |   | No | Yes
Observations | 598 | 598 |  | 602 | 602 |  | 1,200 | 1,200
R-Squared | 0.059 | 0.071 |   | 0.014 | 0.023 |   | 0.105 | 0.113

Notes: This table reports the results of six ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions that predict whether the final panelist a participant selected in Study 5 was a woman. Models 1-2 show results including only participants who were randomly assigned to select panelists from a candidate pool in which women were underrepresented (25% women). Models 3-4 show results including only participants who were randomly assigned to select panelists from a candidate pool in which women were overrepresented (75% women). Models 5-6 show results from all conditions in the study. Across all models, the primary predictor variable is an indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six panelists selected who were women. In Models 2, 4, and 6, we also include controls for whether a participant was a man and a participant’s age. Models 5 and 6 include an indicator for whether the participant was randomly assigned to select panelists from a candidate pool in which women were overrepresented and an interaction between this variable and the primary indicator for random assignment to receive feedback on the % of the original six panelists selected who were women. Standard errors reported in parentheses are estimated robustly using HC3.  +p<0.1;*p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.
---
Table 2. Effects of Random Assignment to Receive Descriptive Feedback About the Identity-Target Composition of Initial Selections Versus Descriptive Feedback About Other Initial-Selection Attributes on Subsequent Selections, Across Studies
Study (N) | Identity-Target Group | Effect of Identity-Target Feedback on Final Selection(s) | Comparison Attributes Provided in Descriptive Feedback | Effect of Comparison-Attribute Feedback on Whether Final Selection(s) Featured the Comparison Attribute | p-value of Wald Test Between the effect of Identity-Target Feedback and Comparison-Attribute Feedback
Study 1: Online Experiment (N = 1,000) | % of Past NPR Experts Who Were Women | +12.51*** | Were Under 50 Years Old | +2.57 | .010*
 |  |  | Were Based on the West Coast of the U.S. | +4.37* | .004**
 |  |  | Worked at a University | +6.41*** | < .001***
Study 2: University Campus Field Experiment (N = 302) | % of Initial Biographies That Featured a Woman Protagonist | +13.20* | Were Over 500 Pages Long | +1.00 | .129
 |  |  | Were Written in the Past 25 Years | +5.00 | .278
 |  |  | Featured an Entertainer | +6.00 | .450
Study 3A: Incentive Compatible Online Experiment (N = 1,000) | % of Initial Films That Featured a Racial Minority Protagonist | +9.38*** | Were Made on a Budget Above $40 Million | −0.23 | .006*
 |  |  | Were Released After 2010 | +6.54 | < .001***
 |  |  | Were Over Two Hours Long | −6.72+ | .009**
Study 3B: Incentive Compatible Online Experiment (N = 1,000) | % of Initial Films That Featured a Woman Protagonist | +20.56*** | Were Made on a Budget Above $40 Million | +1.98 | < .001***
 |  |  | Were Released After 2010 | −0.29 | < .001***
 |  |  | Featured a Political Leader as Protagonist | −5.08 | < .001***
Study 4A: Online Experiment (N = 1,000) | % of Initial Authors Who Were Racial Minorities | +13.40*** | Wrote Poetry | +6.38+ | .013*
 |  |  | Authored More Than 10 Books | +0.68 | .019*
 |  |  | Were Born in the 1800s | +7.44+ | .022*
Study 4B: Online Experiment (N = 1,000) | % of Initial Authors Who Were Women | +11.94*** | Wrote Books, Poems, or Essays Spanning Multiple Genres | −8.22+ | < .001***
 |  |  | Wrote at Least One Book with 30 Million or More Copies Sold | +1.21 | < .001***
 |  |  | Wrote at Least One Book That Remained in Continuous Print for Over 50 Years | +2.06 | .003**
Notes: Each row reports the percentage-point increase in the likelihood that a participant's final selection had a given attribute, induced by random assignment to receive descriptive feedback about that attribute in the participant's set of initial selections, estimated via ordinary-least-squares regression with HC3 robust standard errors. Identity-target feedback estimates correspond to Model 1 of the per-study regression tables in the manuscript and Appendix (Tables 3, S3, S5, S7, and S9); comparison-attribute feedback estimates correspond to the analogous single-equation specification with the comparison attribute as both the outcome and the feedback target. The right-most column reports the p-value of the Wald F-test of equality between the identity-target and comparison-attribute feedback effects, estimated from a Zellner (1962) seemingly-unrelated regression system pairing the identity equation with each comparison equation; rejection indicates that the identity-target feedback effect is significantly larger in magnitude than the corresponding comparison-attribute feedback effect. For Study 2, the Zellner system was not pre-registered (because of the smaller sample), and the reported Wald p-values are estimated post-hoc using the same SUR specification applied to Studies 3A–4B. Comparison attributes were chosen to be domain-relevant for each selection task; in Study 4B, the comparison attributes were additionally pre-tested for importance and confirmed to be rated at least as important as the identity-target attribute. Study 1 is excluded because participants did not generate their own initial selections (the initial portfolio was stimulus-sampled), and Study 5 is excluded because its design varies the initial candidate pool's composition rather than holding it constant. + p < .10; * p < .05; ** p < .01; *** p < .001.

Figures
Figure 1. Candidate Selection Paradigm Employed in Studies 2-5

---
Figure 2. Providing Descriptive Feedback about Past Selectees’ Gender (or Race) Consistently Increases the Subsequent Selection of Women (or Racial Minorities) Across Studies, More So than Providing Feedback on Other Target Attributes

Note: Across all experiments, participants received descriptive feedback about their initial selection decisions. Forest plots illustrate the percentage point differences in participants’ subsequent selection decisions induced by descriptive feedback. (A) This graph shows consistent and positive effects of providing descriptive feedback about the gender (Studies 1, 2, 3B, and 4B) and race (Studies 3A and 4A) of past selectees on the subsequent selections of women (Studies 1, 2, 3B, and 4B) and racial minorities (Studies 3A and 4A). (B) This graph shows smaller and directionally inconsistent effects of providing descriptive feedback about other relevant attributes of past selectees (e.g., Study 3B: whether the film’s protagonist was a political leader, whether the budget of the film was above $40M, whether the film was released after 2010) on subsequent selection decisions. The gray circles show average effects pools, while the gray diamonds show the disaggregated effects of feedback on specific, targeted attributes. Positive values indicate a positive effect of random assignment to receive a certain type of descriptive feedback on the likelihood of subsequently selecting a candidate with that targeted attribute, while negative values indicate a negative response. The error bars represent 95% confidence intervals.
Figure 3. The Effect of Random Assignment to Receive Different Pieces of Descriptive Feedback about Prior Expert Selections (Study 1) and Prior Biography Selections (Study 2) on Subsequent Selections in Study 1 (Panel A) and Study 2 (Panel B)

Notes: Figure 3 presents the percentage of participants by experimental condition who made a final selection with a given attribute. (A) presents results from Study 1 and (B) presents results from Study 2. The x-axis labels indicate which attribute was (randomly) targeted with feedback (e.g., % of experts who were under 50 years old; % of biographies that were over 500 pages). The y-axis presents the percentage of the final selections that had a given target attribute (e.g., the expert was a woman; the biography featured a woman) matching the feedback target listed on the corresponding portion of the x-axis. The blue bars summarize the percentage of final selections with a given attribute when feedback on that target attribute was not provided. The red bars summarize the percentage of final selections with a given attribute when feedback on that target attribute was provided.  n.s.;p≥0.1;+p<0.1;*p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.
Figure 4. The Effects of Random Assignment to (1) Receive Feedback about the Gender Composition of a Set of Six Previously Selected Panelists and (2) Choose Panelists from a Women Underrepresented (vs. Women Overrepresented) Candidate Set on Which Panelist is Subsequently Added to the Panelist Set in Study 5

Notes:  Figure 4 presents the percentage of participants who selected a woman as their final panelist in Study 5 as a function of condition assignment. The x-axis shows whether participants were randomly assigned to the women underrepresented condition (in which participants chose panelists from a candidate set including 18 men and 6 women) or the women overrepresented condition (in which participants chose panelists from a candidate set including 18 women and 6 men). The blue bars depict the conditions in which descriptive feedback about the gender composition of a participant’s initial six panelist selections was not provided, and the red bars depict the conditions in which descriptive feedback about the gender composition of a participant’s initial six panelist selections was provided. The error bars represent +/- 1 standard error. n.s.;p≥0.1;+p<0.1;*p<0.05;**p<0.01;***p<0.001.

